<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-1</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B007-77</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov13.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053657 text/html 197056
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:46:26 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 17-Nov-96 19:12:51 GMT
Content-length: 196863
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/13/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 13, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1996

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court,
in the presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JUROR: Good morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Good morning.

You may resume.

MR. PETROCELLI: Good morning, Your Honor.

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you please state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: Douglas W. Deedrick.

DOUGLAS W. DEEDRICK, the witness on the stand at the time of the
adjournment on Tuesday, November 12, 1996, having been previously duly
sworn, was examined and testified further as follows:

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. MEDVENE:

Q. Agent Deedrick, yesterday we were speaking about hairs, in
particular Mr. Simpson's hairs, that you said you matched between the
known sample and hairs found on Mr. Goldman's shirt and on the Bundy
hat.

Did you have occasion to examine any head hairs found on a head band
and two caps found in Mr. Simpson's bedroom at 360 North Rockingham?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And what was the nature of your examination?

A. To examine for the presence of hairs, and also for fibers.

Q. And did you examine -- did you find any hairs on the head band?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Any hairs on each cap?

A. Right; there were head hairs on each cap.

Q. And did you make a determination whether those head hairs matched
the known sample of Mr. Simpson's and the head hairs you identified as
matching Mr. Simpson's head hairs found on Mr. Goldman's shirt and on
the Bundy hat?

A. Yes. I did a comparison and I compared all of them.

Q. What did you find?

A. All the hairs from known standards, the question hairs, from the
caps, from the bedroom, was also a cap from the Bronco, and the hairs
from the crime-scene items, all exhibited the same characteristics.

Q. Now, yesterday we spoke about hairs. And basically today I want to
move to fibers, if we can.

Can you tell us generally what a fiber is?

A. Well, in general, the simplest definition is the smallest portion
of a fabric. It's the smallest piece, smallest element that makes up a
fabric.

Q. And did you examine certain fiber evidence in connection with this
matter?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And do you examine fibers in the same way you examine hair?

A. Well, pretty much so. It's a microscopic examination, first to
identify a comparison microscope to compare question fibers and known
fibers, but there are additional tests that are used with textile
fibers to confirm identifications. I mentioned them yesterday.

I believe we use polarized light, microscopic -- little bit different,
because we don't use them with hairs; we use FTIR, which is infrared
spectroscopy techniques, micro spectrometry.

To detect color, we use fluorescents, another microscope that allows
you to look at fibers under fluorescents. There are additional
techniques or additional tools that are used with fiber
identifications and comparisons that are not used with hair
examinations.

Q. Now, yesterday, we were discussing Mr. Goldman's shirt and certain
hairs you found on that shirt that matched the known samples of
certain individuals.

Did you find any fibers on Mr. Goldman's shirt that you analyzed to
see if they matched fibers found on any of the items of the chart 2169
that you started for us yesterday?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And what did you find in that regard?

A. Well, the shirt was made of cotton, couple different colors. The
pants were blue cotton; they were blue jeans.

These known samples from his question -- his question items, his
clothing were compared with items that were recovered from items that
are on the board.

And I reached the conclusion regarding those, and that included the
Bundy glove, the Bundy hat and the Rockingham glove. All had fibers on
them that matched up with the fibers from Ron Goldman's clothing.

Q. Would you be good enough to put that on the chart,

(Witness marks on Exhibit 2169.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you have occasion to prepare a chart depicting
the microscopic characteristics of the fibers that you found on the
items of evidence that you say matched those on Ron Goldman's
clothing?

A. I did, yes.

(Counsel displays item marked Known Cotton Fibers From Ron Goldman's
shirt, Number 527.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) I've put on the easel what's been marked as 527.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Known Cotton
Fibers From Ron Goldman's Shirt was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 527.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And I ask you if you prepared that chart?

A. I did.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, may I?

THE COURT: (Nods affirmatively.)

(Mr. Leonard relocates his position in the courtroom.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you take the photographs on the chart?

A. I did.

Q. Could you explain to the jury what the chart depicts?

A. Well, the photographs at the top are the known cotton fibers from
his shirt. I mentioned they were brown, as well as a white.

The bottom six photographs represent fibers that were recovered from
the items, as indicated on the board: Right glove, left glove -- the
left glove was the Bundy glove -- and the knit hat.

Q. Are off-white cotton fibers fairly common?

A. Very common.

Q. If they're common, could you tell us, as a hair examiner, what
significance, if any, is your finding that Mr. Goldman's shirt fibers
were found on the three items that you indicated, the Bundy glove the
Bundy hat and the Rockingham glove?

A. Well, it shows a link. It shows an association between these items
and the victim by clothing. The presence of the reddish substance or
blood, also, I believe is a helpful indicator.

You have to constantly remember that white cotton fibers are common.
And I can really say no more than the fact that they do link those
items.

Q. Did you find what appeared to be any substance on any of the
fibers?

A. Right. It appears to be blood.

Q. And on which -- which particular pictures?

A. Well, all of the question fibers, all of the question photographs
at the bottom, all six.

Q. Did you find any other fibers on Mr. Goldman's shirt?

A. Well, there are blue-jean fibers -- I didn't photograph them --
here that were also found on some of the questioned items, as well.

I believe all three of the question items that the white cotton fibers
were found -- and blue-jean cotton fibers are also common fibers.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 2169.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you find any other fibers on Mr. Goldman's
shirt that you found matched any of the other items on the board,
2169?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I'm just going to object because I think that
misstates his testimony. I don't believe he found -- personally found
any fibers on Mr. Goldman.

THE COURT: Restate it.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you examine any other fibers that you
understood came from Mr. Goldman's shirt that matched any of the other
items identified on Exhibit 2169?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Calls for hearsay and/or speculation; lack of
foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled. Previous foundation having been laid by previous
witness Brockbank, I believe.

MR. MEDVENE: You may answer.

THE WITNESS: Yeah. There were a couple other fiber types that were
found on the shirt that you're -- that would be represented on the
board. A cashmere fiber, as well as some blue-black cotton fibers.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Let's talk first about the cashmere fiber.

Did you compare the cashmere fiber on Mr. Goldman's shirt with any of
the other fibers that you found on items on the chart 2169?

A. There was another cashmere fiber found on the -- on the Bundy hat.

Q. And did you compare those fibers with each other?

A. I did.

Q. And what was the nature of the comparison?

How did you go about doing it?

A. Well, the comparison is microscopic. They were natural cashmere
fibers of brownish coloration to it because of the pigmentation. And
they were alike microscopically, and they -- I compared those with the
known standard, essentially.

Q. Can you put on the board, then, for us the cashmere fiber from Mr.
Goldman's shirt and the fiber you found that matched on the Bundy hat.

(The witness complies.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Now, the cashmere fiber you found, did you examine
any fibers from any items on 2169 to see whether or not the cashmere
fiber you identified as being on Ronald Goldman's shirt and the Bundy
hat was also on any other item at the crime scene?

A. Well, they were the linings from the gloves. The linings from both
the Rockingham glove and the Bundy glove had cashmere fibers inside.
And these question fibers matched up with the linings of the gloves.

Q. Now, you mentioned that also on Mr. Goldman's shirt, you found
certain blue-black fibers; is that correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And did you find any blue-black fibers on any other items on the
2169 chart?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object again. It -- just so it's clear --

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me. I don't think we should have speaking
objections.

MR. LEONARD: Object to lack of foundation as far as "found." I think
that misstates his testimony; same basis as before. I think it should
be clear to the jury who found what.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Lay some foundation as to whether or not this was the one submitted by
LAPD.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Can you tell us where the blue-black -- where you
received the blue-black cotton fibers from?

A. Well, all the fibers he's referring to were received in debris
packets. They had been processed and supplied to me by the LAPD crime
lab, so they came in actual debris packets.

Q. Did you, yourself, do some of the scraping on Mr. Goldman's shirt
while you were at the LAPD?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And did you also tell us yesterday that you personally found, at
the FBI laboratory in Washington, certain hairs that were on the Bundy
hat of Mr. Simpson?

A. That's right; I did.

Q. Now, let's go back to the blue-black cotton fiber.

Did you find blue-black cotton fibers that, in your opinion, matched
the blue-black cotton fibers found on Mr. Goldman's shirt?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object again. I assume that he did find
them in the debris packet. I object.

THE COURT: I'm tempted to overrule it because we're just going to make
that question longer. But to satisfy you this one instance, make the
question longer and lay a groundwork question to ascertain whether or
not the comparisons were made from fibers that were removed from
whatever source they were removed from, and in whatever form, whether
it was this the debris packet or what.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Can you describe for us the blue-black cotton
fibers that you examined and where you received them from.

A. The blue-black cotton fibers were, again, as I said, taken from the
debris packets from specific items: One, Ron Goldman's shirt; there
was a debris packet.

The Rockingham glove, there was a debris packet and also socks from
Rockingham.

Those are, again, all debris packets that I received.

From those packets, I removed blue-black cotton fibers and I did a
comparison.

Q. And did you find a blue-black cotton fiber in the debris packet of
material from Ronald Goldman's shirt?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you --

A. I found a number of those.

Q. Did you find blue-black cotton fiber or fibers from the debris
packet you examined containing material from the Rockingham glove?

A. I did.

Q. Did you find blue-black cotton fibers from the debris packet you
examined containing material from the Rockingham socks?

A. I did, yes.

Q. Now, did you then perform an examination to determine whether or
not there was a match between the blue-black cotton fibers you found
on Mr. Goldman's shirt, the Bundy hat -- excuse me -- blue-black
cotton fibers you found on Mr. Goldman's shirt, the Rockingham glove,
and the Rockingham socks?

A. Right. I did compare the fibers, as I said, that were taken from
debris packets from the Rockingham glove, the Rockingham socks and
Ronald Goldman's shirt. And I saw no differences between them. They
could have originated from the same source.

Q. And what method -- what method of examination did you use?

A. Well, they were compared visually with comparison microscopes, just
like -- similar to what I had told you before about comparing hairs,
observing the visible microscopic characteristics as to color, shape
and so forth.

They were then compared using fluorescents, as well as the color was
compared instrumentally.

Q. Would you put on the board, please, where you found blue-black
cotton fibers with the same microscopic characteristics as those found
on Mr. Goldman's shirt.

(Witness marks Exhibit 2169.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Incidentally, did you find anything unusual about
the blue-black cotton fibers that you've told us about when you
examined them?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Just where the bluish coloration was found; it was only
found in a band! On the fiber itself.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And was that found on the band of the particular
fibers that you examined that, in your opinion, had the same
microscopic characteristics?

A. All the fibers that I'm telling you here had that same bluish --
it's a royal bluish coloration that made me believe they looked the
same microscopically.

Q. You find such a band on all blue-black cotton fibers you examine?

A. No. Fibers are pretty different, one to the next, depending on the
source.

Q. When you say "a band," what do you mean, a band?

How do you see it and what's it look like?

A. Well, it's just change in color along the length. You're following
it microscopically, looking at -- actually's see that it goes from
black to a royal-bluish coloration, then it goes back to black.

Q. Did you prepare a chart depicting the microscopic characteristics
of the blue-black cotton fibers that you found on Mr. Goldman's shirt,
Mr. Simpson's socks, and the Rockingham glove?

A. I did.

Q. How many charts did you prepare?

A. Well, there would have been two.

Q. I'd ask you if you mind coming over to the board and telling us if
531 is one of the charts that you prepared?

A. Well, I can see from here that's one of them, yes.

Q. Who took the pictures?

A. I did.

Q. And could you step down and describe for the jury the significance
of the pictures and what the pictures show.

A. Well, all of these pictures relate this bluish-black cotton fiber
that -- or fibers that were recovered from the items as they're listed
on the chart.

The Rockingham glove, and Goldman shirt, and from the socks over on
the right.

I believe it's the same in both the first two rows of photographs.

The bottom one here, that's just another fiber from the Rockingham
glove, 323, that was taken from Goldman, Q23, was taken from Goldman's
shirt, as well.

There's other debris. When you take a photograph from a slide, you'll
pick up background fibers and hairs; and you'll see those on the
photographs, as well.

Q. Did you find on Q23 at the bottom, anything else belonging to any
of the victims in this case?

A. Well, it's hairs.

(The instrument herein referred to as bluish black cotton fiber
association was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
531.)

A. (Continuing) This hair -- this would have been one of the hairs
that matched up with Nicole Brown. The fibers in the top photographs
here -- can't see it too well here -- these are the cashmere fibers.
Again the Rockingham glove and the Bundy glove both had cashmere
lining; that's what they looked like.

Q. You said you prepared an additional chart?

A. Right. I did add one other chart that had two photographs of the
blue-black cotton fibers.

Q. Why did you prepare an additional chart?

A. I was running out of room, for one thing, on the board.

Q. We've placed on the easel a board that's been marked 532.

(The instrument herein referred to as Known cotton fibers form Goldman
Jeans; questioned cotton fiber from Goldman shirt was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 532.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Can you tell us what that is?

A. Well, 532 is a chart that gives you an idea of the differences here
in cotton fibers.

The blue cotton fibers on the left, they're actually the known fibers
from his jeans. Blue jeans are made up of a bluish coloration cotton
and a whitish coloration, depending on where you're looking at fibers.
Most of them are combination.

This one was around the hair that was from Goldman's shirt.

That was another one of the fibers that matched up with Nicole Brown
Simpson.

This is another fiber that was found. I think you can see this bluish
coloration in areas. There was blue that showed through.

Q. Did you compare the blue-black cotton fibers that you found on Mr.
Goldman's shirt, the Rockingham glove, and the Rockingham socks, with
any known sample of blue-black clothing?

A. No, I did not. I didn't have -- I wasn't supplied any -- either
actual items or cuttings.

Q. If you don't have a known sample to compare the question sample to,
as an experienced hair examiner and fiber examiner, what's the
significance of the finding that, in your opinion, that the question
fiber on the three different items of evidence match or are similar
microscopically?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Lack of foundation; vague; calls for
speculation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, it's significant. It's just another aspect of the
work that I do in the laboratory.

The basic comparison would be one where you're comparing a known
source of fabric with a questioned source. That's pretty straight
forward.

The other type of work that I would do would be to attempt to link
individual objects, individual areas, individual items of clothing
found at different areas. I do this all the time by just the material
that's on the surface, as that may have gotten there as a result of
transfer.

And this is something that I do routinely, especially in cases
involving serial crime.

Where we're looking at debris from different items, from different
victims, trying to determine whether or not there's a commonality to
them: Were all these victims in the same vehicle?

Were all these victims in contact with the same suspect?

Did they come in contact with the same types of fibers?

So we do that all the time. So this is no different; it's just that we
didn't have a known source, and they're found in different locations.
And the question is, can they be linked? Is it possible to link those
items by some form of evidence?

In this particular case, I felt that I did with these cotton fibers.

Q. You felt that you did? Why?

A. Well, because of the -- matching characteristics of the blue-black
cotton fibers.

Q. And in your experience, could you tell -- can you tell whether, in
your judgment, there had been some recent contact with the same item
of clothing that had these blue-black cotton fibers on it that you
just described?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Vague; calls for speculation; lack of
foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled, subject to motion to strike.

THE WITNESS: The presence of fibers on evidence like this is, it falls
in line with what I routinely find in a forensic laboratory; that is,
they represent recent physical contact.

The fact that you find something on an item of clothing such as trace
evidence, hair evidence, or fiber evidence, it's highly suggestive of
more recent contact than something that had occurred at some time in
the distant past.

The reason for this is that fibers have been shown not to persist very
long, persist or last; they just don't hang around. The fibers that
might be transferred onto a glove or to a shirt are then easily lost
within a reasonable time, you know, short time span. They don't stay
very long; otherwise, we'd be walking around with a lot of lint from a
lot of different contacts that we have.

In fact, the washing machine is a good example. Routinely, you're
picking up fibers, you're losing fibers as you go through life. And if
you stop time at one particular point, the material that's found on
that item -- and it's excellent from -- clothing that's from dead
people because they don't move, they stop. That relates their most
recent contacts; that's why you look at it.

MR. LEONARD: Move to strike.

THE COURT: Motion denied.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) If a person was wearing two different articles of
clothing, would you expect, in your experience, to find, in your
experience, from one article of clothing deposited on the other
article of clothing?

MR. LEONARD: Same objection.

THE COURT: You want to try that one again?

MR. MEDVENE: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) In your experience -- you told us yesterday about
primary and secondary transfers.

If a person is wearing two different articles of clothing, for example
pants, socks, is it in your experience it's common for fiber to be
transferred from one article of clothing pants, to the socks?

MR. LEONARD: Same objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: That would be common; it wouldn't surprise me at all.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Is the finding of a blue-black cotton fiber on the
socks found in Mr. Simpson's bedroom consistent with him having worn
an item of clothing made of such blue-black cotton fiber at the time
he wore the socks?

MR. LEONARD: Calls for speculation; lack of foundation; vague.

THE COURT: Hypothetically. Overruled.

THE WITNESS: As a hypothetical, if those were his socks, it would be
consistent with that, yes.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Incidentally, could the blue-black cotton fiber
found on Mr. Simpson's socks have originated in the socks themselves?

In other words, would the socks contain, themselves, a blue-black
cotton fiber?

A. No, they didn't come from the socks. I analyzed the socks; they're
different fibers altogether.

Q. Let me move, if I might, to get back to some other fibers that
we're talking about.

Focusing now on the fibers again, did you find any other fibers than
you have described on the Bundy knit hat?

A. I did. There were other fibers, yes.

Q. Did you find any fibers that appear to be carpet fiber?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And what color would that be?

A. Initially, I called them a rose-beige, appeared to have sort of a
pinkish cast to them; they're Trilobal nylon, T-R-I-L-O-B-A-L carpet
fibers. And it was found on the -- on the Bundy hat in my processing
of the hat.

Q. You used the word Trilobal nylon. What is -- what does that mean?

A. Carpet fibers are three-dimensional structures. They come in
different shapes. This particular fiber has three lobes. And these
three lobes may -- again, they may come in different shapes and
different forms, depending on who made the fiber, what company made
the fiber.

I think I had a picture of it, I believe.

MR. MEDVENE: Can you put up 530 (sic), please. (The instrument herein
referred to as Photo of 92-94 Bronco - 1405 Nylon fiber was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 516.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Does that help better describe it?

A. Yes.

Q. We put on the TV monitor, 530.

I'm sorry. Go ahead.

A. Yeah, that's the shape of it. That's the scanning electronic
micrograph of the fiber -- of a fiber of that type, shows you the
three-dimensional orientation of it. And it has three lobes, and they
extend around from a central core. And the particular lobe, as you can
see, they expand out. I called it the jack cross-section, initially
looked like -- thinking back, when you're playing with jacks.

I didn't play with jacks; the girls played with jacks.

That's why I called it a jack cross-section. I remember seeing them.

Q. That's Exhibit 516.

Incidentally, it's on the -- that's on the board. And what is that
picture of?

What does it say on the board?

A. Can I get up and read it?

Do you want specifically what it is?

Q. Yes.

A. I can't read it.

Q. Okay.

Now, you said that you found certain --

(Exhibit is zoomed in on the TV screen.)

MR. LEONARD: Can you read it now?

THE WITNESS: It's much clearer now. Excellent.

MR. MEDVENE: It is for me, too?

THE WITNESS: '92 through '94 Bronco, 1405 nylon.

1405 is just the type of nylon that was produced. It's a DuPont fiber,
made by DuPont Company.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Now, going back to where we were before we started
describing what the trilobal was on your early examination.

Where did you find this kind of beige carpet fiber? On what items that
are on the chart?

A. That would have been on the Bundy hat and the Rockingham glove. I
removed the fiber from the Bundy hat, from the Rockingham glove. It
came in one of the debris packets. From the glove.

Q. You actually removed it yourself from the Bundy hat?

A. I did.

Q. And did you do an examination to determine whether or not the fiber
-- the carpet fiber that you removed from the Bundy knit hat and the
carpet fiber that you removed from the Rockingham glove, matched or
had the same microscopic characteristics?

A. The fiber from the Bundy hat and the fiber from the debris packets
from the Rockingham glove matched each other. Initially, I didn't have
a source.

Q. And tell us what kind of examination you did to determine whether
or not they matched each other.

A. Well, these are compared again, visually, microscopically. I
compared them using scanning electron microscopy, but the basic
analysis would be comparison microscope, fluorescents, color
comparison, infrared spectroscopy. Those are the main comparison
techniques that were used for the fibers in question.

Q. Can you just go through a little bit, because I don't think we
picked it up yesterday, what each of those examinations when you're
examining the carpet permits you to do.

A. Well --

Q. Or permits you to see?

A. Each -- each stage is just one point in the analysis. You're trying
to determine who -- whether the fibers looked the same or looked
different.

You kind of have checkpoints that you use. One is comparison visually,
using white light, transmitted light. If they look the same as to
shape, as to color, as -- as to size, as to internal microscopic
characteristics, if there are no differences between them, then you go
on to the next stage.

And then it might be fluorescents. You may use fluorescents; you may
use polarized light, microscopy. Just -- you're examining the fiber
under all polarized light.

Q. What does that mean?

A. A polarizing microscope allows you to look at fibers in a different
environment, by passing polarized light through the fiber and blocking
out extraneous light, you can see what are called interference colors;
and these interference colors then will allow you to compare --
compare question and known fiber by interference colors.

But you can also identify the fiber using the colors. That's the nylon
or polyester or acrylic or rayon or acetates. There's many different
types. So the polarized light allows you to come up with some
information to identify the type of fiber as a group, as a class of
fiber.

The infrared spectrometer will allow a further analysis as to the
specific type of nylon or type of polyester or type of acrylic. And
that's another stage.

If you reached the polarized light, I say they appear to be nylon
microscopically, the infrared spectrometer will then determine the
type of nylon, and if results are the same as to the results of the
instrumentation.

Microscopic spectrometry is another microscope, and the microscope is
connected to some optical equipment that measures the light as it
passes through the fiber, and we measure the physical light spectrum.

What I see and what we all see is a reflection of light off an object.
The color -- for instance, the suit, some may see it as black, some
may see it as blue. It's what we perceive it to be.

But the color of what you see is not necessarily -- and is often not
just one color that went into making it, just like when you go buy
paint, the paint on your wall is blue, but when they make it, they
start with white and they squirt in a bunch of different things into
it, and they make it blue the way you like it.

The same thing goes with fibers. They add a lot of different things.
What the micro spectrometer does, it breaks it down through the
microspec. It gives you peaks with the color absorbing light as it
passes through it. So it's another point of comparison. So each point
along the path are confirmations of the initial microscopic
observations under white light.

Q. Now, you said you looked at the fibers on the hat and glove and
described that analysis for us.

Did you find any other fibers on any other items of evidence that you
examined in this case?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And were those -- were those other carpet fibers?

A. Well, yes, there were other carpet fibers taken from debris
packets, from three other items that were submitted to me, that had
been removed from the cargo area of Mr. Simpson's Bronco.

Q. And what were those three other items?

A. There would have been a shovel; there was one fiber on a shovel
debris; there was one fiber off a piece of plastic debris; and there
was one fiber off a towel debris. And these were identified to me as
coming from the cargo area of the Bronco.

Q. Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, did you compare the carpet fibers that you told us about found
on the Bundy knit hat and the Rockingham glove to the fibers you found
on the towels, shovel, and plastic were indicated to you came from the
cargo area of Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And what kind of analysis or examination, comparison, did you do
between those items?

A. The same. Same analysis each time.

Q. And what conclusion did you reach?

A. Well, in -- all of the fibers could have originated from the same
source; they all matched each other; they could have originated from
the same source of fabric, same carpet.

Q. Now, at the time you compared carpet fibers, what you thought were
carpet fibers found on the Bundy knit hat, the Rockingham glove, and
the three items you described in the back of Mr. Simpson's Bronco --
did you yet have a fiber sample from Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. No; I had no carpet samples from any place at that time.

Q. Did you subsequently acquire one?

A. I did.

Q. Why? Why did you want one?

A. Well, because I found it, first of all, and I wanted to determine a
possible source. I had not seen the fiber before. I felt that fiber
was rather unusual, from my experience.

I then asked for a carpet sample to be obtained from the Bronco, just
to verify whether or not it was or could have been the source of those
fibers.

Q. You have five fibers that match and you want to find out now where
they came from?

A. That's the question.

Q. Now, you said in looking at the fibers -- I think you said a moment
ago, something -- it appeared they -- appeared to be unusual. Why --
what was it?

A. Well, the cross-section -- the color, I mean, there's a lot of
colors. But the main thing to me, that struck me, was the
cross-sectional shape, I had not seen that little jack cross-section.

Q. And did there come a time when you received a carpet sample or
samples from Mr. Simpson's Bronco delivered to you by the
representatives of the LAPD?

A. Yes.

Q. And you received that in Washington?

A. That's right.

Q. And when you received it, what did you do with it? That is, the
carpet sample or samples from Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. Well, the fibers were mounted to -- on glass microscope slides, and
the comparison process was the same. That I used for the questioned
fibers to determine whether or not these question fibers matched up
with the known source of fibers.

Q. And what examination did you perform and how did you do it?

A. I mean, again, I started with comparison microscope, polarized
light, fluorescents, micro spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy.

Q. And did you reach a conclusion whether the carpet fiber you found
on the Bundy hat, the carpet fiber you found on the Rockingham glove,
the carpet fiber you found on the three items that were found and sent
to you in the cargo area of Mr. Simpson's Bronco, had any relationship
to the carpet fiber from Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. Well, they all matched. They all matched the known sample of carpet
from Mr. Simpson's Bronco.

Q. Could you put on the board for us, then -- we don't have the items
for Mr. Simpson's car, but could you put one -- 2169 where you found
the carpet that you believe was carpet from Mr. Simpson's Bronco.

(Witness marks Exhibit 2169.)

Q. Did you prepare a chart depicting the microscopic characteristics
of the fiber that you found on the Rockingham glove and knit hat, as
well as the three items from Mr. Simpson Bronco?

A. I did.

(Witness displays Exhibit 530.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) I direct your attention to Exhibit 530, that has
been placed on the easel.

(The instrument herein referred to as Series of photos on board
entitled known carpet fibers from O.J.'s Bronco was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 530.)

Q. I ask you if you're familiar with that chart.

A. I am.

Q. How so?

A. I had it made; I took the photographs.

Q. Could you, if you wouldn't mind, go over to the chart and describe
for the ladies and gentlemen of the jury and the Court what the chart
depicts.

A. This chart represents photographs of the fibers under white light,
by the four corner photographs, through the microscope.

And the center one here, center two photographs, both the K9, which
would be known sample number 9 that came from the Bronco carpet, and
this is a SEM or scanning electronic micrographic magnification is
here, is about 480, as you can see. These other ones are about 250.

This would be from the Rockingham glove debris packet.

K14 that I just -- another one of the carpet samples that we got -- we
had several carpet samples from the vehicle from different locations.

Q47 is the fiber from the knit cap debris, that's from what I removed.

Q3c is from the debris. If you look close, you can see a lot in the
microscope. You train yourself to see a lot of things without having
this particular help.

The first thing that I saw was this little shadowy area right on the
end. You can see it goes right along here, see it down here, as well.
See a little bit up here. As you follow the fiber microscopically, you
move and you follow it along. You trail it on the microscope. You can
actually see how this fiber is training orientations and you can get
an idea as to what this fiber's cross-section is.

So I had an idea that it had little lobed ends on each one of these
trilobal peaks, but I was able to verify that using scanning electron
microscopy, which is a little different microscopic technique.

Q. Can you point out if it shows on any of those what we're talking
about when they we say "trilobal," what we're talking about when we
say jack cross-section?

A. Okay.

Trilobal, again, the configuration -- there's three lobes coming off a
central core, and there's a lot of different shapes and fibers,
man-made fibers. They do a lot of neat things to them; there are a lot
of reasons.

Carpet fibers, they make a lot of them trilobal because they hide dirt
very well. You can see particles down into that in here, which I think
is from the floor area of the vehicle.

But this trilobal shape matched up with this trilobal shape as to
configuration here. You can see these lobes are squeezed together a
little bit, but you're kind of catching it as it is on the slide and
actually how it came out.

And I didn't really go into the production and all and how unique it
may be, but this particular shape I hadn't seen in my experience. I
felt it was unique.

Q. And the jack cross-section, is that on any --

A. That's it. I mean, that's why you have to use your imagination a
little bit, but jacks have more than three lobes.

Here, we have this little knobby end. I thought that was unusual
because I hadn't seen it before; that's a unique fiber as the shape.

Q. The carpet fibers from the Bronco found on the Bundy hat and
Rockingham glove, again, yesterday and today, we've talked some about
primary transfer and secondary transfer.

In your opinion, as an expert doing this work for some 19 years, do
you have an opinion as to the -- in what manner the carpet fibers from
Mr. Simpson's Bronco could have been transferred to the Bundy knit hat
and the Rockingham glove?

MR. LEONARD: Calls for speculation; lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, it could have been -- again, it could have been
either, could have been a primary transfer that these items actually
were in contact with the carpeted surface at one point.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) In other words, the glove and the hat, one point,
were sitting on the carpet in Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. Right. Just like on the shovel and the towel and the plastic, same
principle.

MR. LEONARD: Did you finish your answer?

THE WITNESS: I thought I did.

(Counsel displays 2169)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Could you indicate now on the board, because
previously we had carpet fiber up before you identified it -- could
you indicate the Bronco carpet fiber and the items where it was found?

A. (The witness complies.)

Q. Is it reasonable to conclude, as a fiber expert with your years of
experience, with a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, that the
Bronco carpet fiber found on the three items in the cargo area of Mr.
Simpson's Bronco, on the Bundy hat, and the Rockingham glove, all
originated from a Bronco with carpet identical to the one driven by
Mr. Simpson?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, it's reasonable. It could have originated from a
Bronco like his, yes.

MR. MEDVENE: I want to move to a slightly different area.

THE COURT: Let's take a ten-minute recess.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case; don't form or express
any opinion.

(Recess.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: The clerk told me Mr. Blasier had something he wanted to
bring up outside the presence of the jury; that's why we didn't have
the jury.

MR. BLASIER: That was before the next witness, Your Honor.

THE CLERK: I'm sorry.

THE COURT: Okay. Bring the jury in.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: You may resume.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Agent Deedrick, with respect to the Bronco carpet
fiber we were talking about -- well, let me step back.

When you find a carpet fiber, for example, that you determine matches
certain evidence found at a crime scene, do you make an attempt to
ascertain its uniqueness or rarity?

A. Sometimes I do, yes.

Q. And how do you go about doing that?

A. Well, depends upon the type of fiber that I find, as to its
cross-sectional shape, and again, based on my experience.

There are different carpet providers, carpet companies that make
automobile carpet. And most of my contacts over the years have been
with the automotive carpet producers within the United States, so I
have contacts with a number of different people.

I also have contacts with fiber producers. So it's a matter of
contacting them. I do have some familiarity with who produces carpet
for certain types of vehicles, and there are contacts that I can reach
out to for information.

Q. To save time, cutting through everything you did, did you make a
determination of what carpet company produced the carpet for Mr.
Simpson's Bronco?

A. That would have been Masland, M-A-S-L-A-N-D Industries in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania.

Q. And under what arrangement did they do it, and for what vehicle?

A. Well, they have an exclusive contract with Ford and they produce
that particular carpet for three types of vehicles. That would include
the Bronco, full-size Bronco, the F series trucks, and the Econoline
vans between 1992 and 1994.

Q. And an exclusive contract means what?

A. Well, they're the only providers. The carpet would be unique as to
dye formulation, and as to the type of carpet, and as to that they
produce only for Ford.

Q. And the only producer to Ford of that carpet?

A. For these vehicles, yes.

Q. And you mentioned the dye formulation. The actual fibers are
produced in great numbers by what company?

A. Well, the fibers were produced by DuPont. And DuPont sells the yarn
to Masland in undyed form; and they, in turn, will then make the
carpet and then color the carpet to the specifications set out through
the contract with Ford Industries.

Q. And between -- strike that.

And did Ford, on the vehicles you described, have carpet in its
vehicles in a number of different colors?

A. There were four different colors, initially. They did change some
of the colors during that same time frame between, '92 and '94.

MR. MEDVENE: Now, could you put on the TV monitor, please, 516.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Mr. Simpson's Bronco was what year, by the way?

A. That was a '94.

Q. And we put on 516. That I believe was up there before, but could
you tell us during what years Masland utilized this carpet as
exclusive to Ford, on the Bronco, F series trucks, and Econoline vans.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I think that misstates the testimony.

THE COURT: Want to correct that?

MR. LEONARD: Then was there was an additional vehicle that the carpet
was in?

Q. Can you -- could you tell us the three -- can you tell us the
vehicles during 1992 and 1994, including the period Mr. Simpson's
Bronco was made?

A. Between -- between April -- I started in April of '92, this
particular carpet with that fiber format was introduced. Between April
of '92 -- and I ended in June of '94 because that's the date of the
homicide -- they produced this particular carpet, as I said for the
Bronco, the F series trucks. I think there were three different --
150, 250, and 350 and -- well, not Econoline vans, so -- and the color
was called medium mocha. It's a rose beige, but it's actually medium
mocha.

They used that particular color and carpet, the name medium mocha,
between those time frames. They didn't change the name medium mocha at
all.

Q. During the particular time period 1992 to 1994, while they didn't
change the name, was there any change that affected the coloring of
the mocha carpet that was in Mr. Simpson's vehicle?

A. They changed the dye formulation in May of '93, still called medium
mocha, but they altered the chemicals that went into the dye, the
color that they ended up with.

Q. And did you examine carpet samples before and after the dye change?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And were you able to tell the difference?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Now, you've told us, in referring to the 516, something about the
carpet that Masland produced for the three Ford vehicles between '92
and '94.

Did they produce a different kind of carpet or a different design or
color or carpet in 1991?

A. Well, in '91, they had -- I think they may have called it medium
mocha; I'm not sure. They had a different fiber shape; it was a DuPont
fiber, but the cross-sectional shape was different, easily
distinguishable.

I have a photograph of that.

Q. Would you put on the board, please, 517.

(The instrument herein referred to as Dupont Fiber No. 1850 was marked
for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 517.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Could you describe for us what 517 is?

A. Well, 517 is the '91 Bronco fiber. And it was, again, a DuPont
fiber. It's 1850 nylon; I knew that. Thanks for the help (indicating
to screen.)

That's DuPont 1850. They switched to 1405 for the -- '92 through '94.
It's a different shape.

If you remember, that knobby end on the 1405 DuPont, 1850 is irregular
and they used this a lot. This is high production-type fiber, and you
find it in floor mats and you also find it in carpeting in a lot of
different vehicles. I believe they sell it in residential, this
particular shape.

Q. Now, starting in '95, certainly sometime after June of '94, did
Masland produce a different configuration carpet than produced and
utilized in Mr. Simpson's vehicle?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Do you know the type of fiber -- Strike that.

Do you know the type of carpet utilized by Ford in 1995?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Going back, then to the April 1, '92, to July of
'94 period, based on your investigation, did you make a determination
on your examination of the carpet fibers -- did you make a
determination whether the carpet in Mr. Simpson's Bronco was produced
by Masland for Ford before or after the dye change?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Lay a foundation.

(BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you examine the Bronco carpet fiber produced by
Masland between 1992 through June of 1994 -- Excuse me -- between
April of 1992 to the dye change in May of 1993?

A. I don't know if I understand the question at all. Can you repeat
it?

Q. Sure.

Did you examine the carpet, that carpet that Masland produced not Ford
vehicles, prior to and after the dye change?

A. I did, yes.

Q. And did you conduct an examination to determine whether the carpet
in Mr. Simpson's Bronco was produced by Masland prior to the May '93
dye change or after?

MR. LEONARD: Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: The fibers from O.J. Simpson's Bronco corresponded with
the post-dye change, so it would have been after May of '93.

His vehicle was produced in October of '93.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And how did you make a determination that the
carpet in Mr. Simpson's Bronco was produced after May of '93?

A. Well, it was from a microscopic comparison and also color
comparisons, dye formulation.

Q. Now, I want to now deal with the period from April of '92 to June
of '94 that you talked about.

Based on your communications with Masland, did you determine the total
number of Ford vehicles -- and might I ask you to -- let's set up the
board and maybe we can write a few numbers down on the board.

(Counsel displays writing paper.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Based on your communications with Masland, were
you able to determine the total number of Ford vehicles -- that is,
all Ford vehicles -- with medium mocha carpet between April of '92 and
June of 1994?

A. Yes.

Q. And what was that number?

A. 136,000 vehicles.

Q. Could you put that up on the board, please.

A. Just write the number 136, or how would you want me to do it?

Q. Well, why don't we put, just so it will be meaningful, because
we'll be dealing with a few numbers -- why don't we just put "Ford
medium mocha April 92, June 99, (sic) 136.

MR. GELBLUM: June '94.

MR. MEDVENE: June '94.

We ask that that be marked as next in order, Your Honor, which is, I
believe, 2170.

(The instrument herein referred to as Handwritten chart by Mr.
Deedrick was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
2170.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Now, of this total number -- if you wouldn't mind
standing close to the board -- of this total number, how many of these
were Broncos?

A. 26,000.

Q. All right. And the remainder were what kind of car?

A. Well, it would have been F series trucks and Econoline vans.

Q. Those were the only ones that had this kind of carpet, right?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, you've alluded to it, but during the -- the '92 to '94 period
and the -- and the production of the medium mocha carpet by Masland,
was there a dye formulation change?

A. Right. In May of '93.

Q. And what do we mean by a dye formulation change? Was the carpet
still referred to as medium mocha?

A. It was.

Q. And what do we mean, "dye formulation?"

A. Well, they just changed the chemicals that went into the vat when
they dyed the carpet.

Q. Would a number of chemicals go into the batch that affect what the
color is?

A. Right. They had, I believe, four or five dyes that were used. And
they weigh a certain amount of each and they put it into this big tub
of water, and it dissolves. And they then take undyed carpet and roll
it around in it for a period of time until it absorbs the color, and
then that's the color they end up with.

Q. That's unique to Masland 440 (sic)?

A. Right. That's one dye batch. That's correct.

Q. Now, given the fact that -- strike that.

Let me step back.

So 136,000 is the amount of vehicles with the medium mocha carpet
between April of '92 and June of '94?

Did you make a determination of that 136,000, how many were made after
the dye batch changed?

A. I did.

Q. And what was that determination?

A. About 72,000 vehicles would have had the same type medium mocha,
same dye formulation.

Q. Can you put that up on the board.

Now, would with that 72,000 number include Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

A. His vehicle would have been included in that 72,000.

Q. Now, how many Broncos of the type that Mr. Simpson had were
produced between the time of the dye change, May of '93 and June of
94?

A. Well, about 14,000.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object. Relevance. Move to strike.

THE COURT: What is the relevance of all of this?

MR. MEDVENE: The relevance is to show --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object to any speaking explanation in front
of the jury. If he wants to approach side bar --

THE COURT: I'll sustain it. I don't see any relevance.

MR. MEDVENE: May we approach the bench?

THE COURT: Okay.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

MR. MEDVENE: This is, incidentally, our last area, Your Honor; be
about five more minutes.

The relevance is that we would be able to show through this witness --
and depositions have been taken of all the underlying people defense
wanted to take depositions of to support these calculations and
numbers.

That of the total number of Ford vehicles made during that period,
we're able to show that there were only 375 of the Broncos of the type
that Mr. Simpson drove registered in LA County on the day of the
murders; that's step one.

Step two is that the likelihood of encountering a Ford with the same
kind of carpet as Mr. Simpson's had on the day of the murders was
three in 10,000.

And the likelihood of encountering a Bronco with the same carpet at
the time of the murders was six in 100,000.

So that's where the testimony's going.

But the first step is, in terms of likelihood that if you, alone in LA
County on the date of the murders, there were only 375 Broncos that
had the kind of carpet fiber that was found on critical items of
evidence at the crime scene, as I say, there were depositions taken of
all the underlying witnesses going to these numbers and statistics.
And we feel that while the defense can certainly argue it could be one
of those other 375, we think we have a right to argue, as we do with
the hair and fiber and other evidence, that it's one more factor that
points to Mr. Simpson.

And the defense can certainly argue well, it could have been 374 other
people; somebody could have driven in from out of state, or whatever.
But we believe we can show the uniqueness of this carpet fiber, and
this is a way of showing it.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, this is raising what turns out to be an art
form, and you'll learn that to a level, that absolutely is misleading.

THE COURT: When am I going to learn?

MR. LEONARD: You'll see when you finish with this witness. Raising to
a level of scientific certainty with this fancy probability of
calculation, I mean, what difference does it make if there's 375
Broncos. We know there are at least 72,000 vehicles out there with the
same type of carpet.

MR. BAKER: What he has done -- he hasn't said where the carpet --

THE COURT: You're submitting the first --

MR. BAKER: No, we don't need that for this. They've never excluded the
fact that Masland makes this.

THE COURT: I call to your attention a case called People versus One
Gold Cadillac or One Pink Cadillac, a deputy district attorney, Ray
Sinetar from L.A. County who got a conviction based on exactly the
kind of evidence you offer, and they overturned it.

MR. PETROCELLI: On what ground?

THE COURT: On the ground that you can't prove these things by running
numbers.

MR. MEDVENE: I don't know that.

THE COURT: You cannot. You know, that was a criminal case; they said
you can't.

MR. PETROCELLI: Doesn't it go to weight, Your Honor.

THE COURT: The facts of the case were, is that a black guy with a
white prostitute driving a certain color Cadillac automobile, and at a
certain location. So Ray Sinetar, who was a classmate of mine in law
school, and he was Order of the Coif one of the bright guys who became
district attorney of Ventura County. He had this theory, just like
yours, of proving that statistically there was nobody else --
statistically, there would be only an astronomical combination of
those factors in this particular location, indicating that this guy
was the guy.

MR. MEDVENE: But wasn't that case -- I don't remember clearly, but I
think I read it -- but doesn't the case deal with probability woman
and a man with somebody of the opposite race at a particular place at
a particular time at a particular location.

THE COURT: Just like yours.

MR. MEDVENE: No, no it's different, if Your Honor please, because here
we have -- we know you had a Bronco here. We have a witness, Mr.
Heidstra, I believe, that testified that the car he saw leaving was
consistent with being a Bronco. And we know --

Wait. I'm sorry.

But we know we have carpet fiber found on items that Mr. Simpson had.
There was carpet fibers in his Bronco.

THE COURT: Fine. So what do you need all this mumbo jumbo statistics
for?

MR. MEDVENE: Well, minimally, I assume I can get down to the rarity,
that there's only 375 registered, if I can't get the probability.

THE COURT: How many are registered to O.J. Simpson?

MR. MEDVENE: One.

THE COURT: How many of those --

MR. MEDVENE: It's registered to Hertz.

THE COURT: Okay.

And how many of those have his hair type, fibers, and how many of
those are found on his property?

You know, your statistical analysis is meaningless when compared with
the real import of the evidence that you are adducing through
commonality of factors that point to the defendant. These numbers mean
nothing.

MR. MEDVENE: Well, if I can't get in the probability --

THE COURT: These numbers give us -- these numbers give a plethora or a
prelature of numbers to a conclusion that is just statistically
meaningless in terms of evidentiary value.

Under 352 of the Evidence Code, I'm going to find it means nothing;
that the aspect of it is so insignificant, that under 352.

I think the prejudicial aspect of throwing numbers you have up on a
board to a jury, giving it the respectability of numbers, has a far
prejudicial value compared to the probative value.

I think your probative value of the evidence is the essence of the
evidence itself, not the numbers.

MR. MEDVENE: Your Honor, was the -- when you say putting evidence on
the board, I mean, was that -- would there be a difference if we
elicited the evidence from the witness. I don't --

THE COURT: Means absolutely nothing.

MR. MEDVENE: Are you saying the fact that there are only 375 Bronco
vehicles registered in LA County at the time of the murders isn't a
factor that we can argue.

THE COURT: Mr. Medvene what significance does that have in connection,
when contrasted with the evidence of commonality that it's evidence
thus far.

MR. MEDVENE: I understand that. I didn't want to leave anything off of
the table --

THE COURT: Well, this one --

MR. MEDVENE: -- unless you tell me I have to.

THE COURT: Defense objects to it. And I see a more reasonable ground
for exclusion.

MR. PETROCELLI: We are going to get into frequencies in the blood on
DNA tests.

THE COURT: That has a different scientific relevance.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

MR. MEDVENE: But --

THE COURT: Those are scientifically, statistically accepted in the
community. I presume you're going to have testimony that goes to that.

MR. PETROCELLI: Absolutely.

THE COURT: All right. This means nothing.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

MR. MEDVENE: But --

THE COURT: This is a big waste of time.

MR. MEDVENE: Well, isn't a statistical getting it to 375, Your Honor?

In other words, if the probability is one thing, but the fact that
only that many Broncos -- that's a fact. I mean, that's something that
they've examined the people on. Those are the number of vehicles
registered.

THE COURT: What.

MR. MEDVENE: Well,

MR. LEONARD: Judge, they're triple-teaming me here.

MR. KELLY: You're not even supposed to be here.

Judge, if we elicited the testimony of the 375 and don't try to put it
in context of all the big numbers, can we just leave it at that?

MR. LEONARD: Oh yeah, that would be great.

MR. KELLY: No, you're avoiding it.

THE COURT: What's the relevance of 375?

MR. KELLY: The same with the number of gloves ordered or anything
else. It's the relative improbabilities, in a general sense. You have
a sexual evidence case, you've got to put all these different pieces
of evidence together. It's just one link in the chain.

If we use that and avoid all the different large numbers, I think it
makes --

THE COURT: That's a pretty weak link.

MR. KELLY: It's a link, nonetheless.

THE COURT: The reason I'm going to sustain the objection is because
the -- because the patina of throwing numbers up there is grossly
prejudicial to the probative value. And under 352, I'm going to
sustain the objection.

Take it up on appeal.

MR. KELLY: Understand that, Judge.

MR. MEDVENE: May I ask -- I don't want to do it in front of the jury
if I can't ask it, because this is my last area; it will be my last
question. And I don't want to ask it if I can't --

THE COURT: I made my ruling.

MR. MEDVENE: I understand; I'm not challenging you.

THE COURT: Would you like to be part of this, Mr. Leonard, or you
don't care?

MR. LEONARD: No, I care.

THE COURT: If you don't care, then I'll make a ruling without you.

MR. LEONARD: I thought you made your ruling.

THE COURT: I did. I'm trying to make a ruling.

MR. MEDVENE: I'm just asking if I may ask this question. I don't want
to ask it if you think it's improper, because of your ruling.

May I ask as the last question, based on your investigation, were the
number of vehicles with the same kind of carpet as Mr. Simpson's
registered in LA County in June of 1994, was that a small number.

If they don't want to get into the number, have just that one
question.

MR. LEONARD: That leaves me at a disadvantage because then I have to
reconstruct all this. That leaves it hanging out there.

MR. PETROCELLI: We don't want to leave it hanging.

MR. MEDVENE: I don't want to leave it. They've left this area open.

THE COURT: Those numbers are meaningless.

MR. MEDVENE: Okay. I just want to get a question, because I've been
kind of set up here in a sense, that they knew this testimony was
coming; they waited. There was no motion. We started the testimony.
And I just want something that I can finish up with.

I mean, it's not like any of these things were a secret, Dan, so ...
no indication. We could have argued this out before the Judge before
the questioning started.

So I would just like to establish that there are relatively few Bronco
vehicles with this kind of carpet in LA County.

It's up to you if you want to open it.

MR. LEONARD: All right. Leave it on my plate. We've already got 72,000
vehicles up there, and that there's --

MR. MEDVENE: It's unfair --

MR. LEONARD: No, it's not a setup.

MR. MEDVENE: It's mis -- I didn't mean to use that, but to have up
there, if there's 7,000 vehicles, puts me at a disadvantage because
the real number is 375. If there's going to be this objection it could
have been made before we started.

We didn't try springing this on anybody; we've been over this before.
I've discussed it with Mr. Leonard.

MR. LEONARD: What do you mean "real number" `375. It has no
significance to the case whatsoever.

MR. MEDVENE: That's another argument. The real number in the sense
that's the number of Broncos that was registered on the night of the
murder with the same kind of carpet.

MR. LEONARD: So what?

THE COURT: I'm going to sustain the objection.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Let me ask one more question, Agent Deedrick.

Is it correct that, in your judgment, that the Bronco carpet found in
Mr. Simpson's Bronco and that you've matched to the various items
you've matched it to, is a very rare dye formulation?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: That's a different question to answer.

I can only go by the carpet itself. As far as whether or not they used
that particular dye formulation before, I don't know.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) But, in terms of automotive vehicles that used, or
had the right to put this kind of carpet in a vehicle, in a Ford
vehicle, in a Bronco, was the medium mocha carpet made between May of
'93 and June of '94 used in a limited number of vehicles?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes. It would have been limited to only those vehicles
produced by Ford of those three, as I mentioned before.

MR. MEDVENE: Thank you very much, Agent Deedrick.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. Good morning.

A. Good morning.

Let me set my stuff up so it doesn't fall down like it usually does.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, we withdraw 2170.

THE CLERK: It's withdrawn?

MR. PETROCELLI: Withdraw it, yes.

(The document previously marked Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2170 for
identification was withdrawn by plaintiffs as an exhibit to this
proceeding.)

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Mr. Deedrick, how much time have you spent
preparing to render the opinions that you gave in this case in this
courtroom?

A. Perhaps about two days' preparation for this trial.

Q. Okay.

And how much time have you -- so how many hours, approximately? Let me
get some hours.

A. Seems like 48, but probably not that many.

Q. Okay.

And prior to the criminal trial, how much time did you put in,
altogether?

A. Well, I would have spent a lot of time from the day it came in, in
August of '94, up through the testimony.

I can't really tell you how many hours.

Q. Do you remember testifying at the criminal trial that you had put
in 100 to 200 hours prior to your testimony?

A. I don't remember, but that's a fair estimate, I would think.

Q. This was an important case to you, wasn't it, sir?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Vague; ambiguous; calls for conclusion.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: It's an important case, sure.

Every case have you to testify on is important, every case you work.

Q. Is it fair to say that you've spent more time on this case than on
any other case you ever testified in?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. Does he mean civil or criminal?

MR. LEONARD: Either.

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. They're different cases. Compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Let's get on with the preliminaries.

A. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, I've worked some big cases.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You have given some opinions here. And would you
agree with me that it's important when you sit up on that stand and
give opinions, such as you have in this case, that you be objective
and fair and accurate?

Would you agree with that?

A. As best I can, yes; I would agree.

Q. Would you agree that it's important that you don't get emotionally
involved in the case?

A. I don't believe you should; I should try to maintain a detached
impartiality.

Q. Well, it's important to be objective, correct?

A. During your analysis, during your interpretation, yes.

Q. And during your testimony, as well, correct?

A. Well, testimony should follow the interpretation of the results.

Q. And it's important to be impartial, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And would you agree with the following proposition; that if there
is any question about your interpretations or the basis for your
interpretations that you throw out the conclusions? Do you agree with
that?

A. Any question about the results? It all depends on what those
results are. I don't know. It's not clear.

Q. Do you remember testifying at the criminal trial that -- and saying
that if there is any question, you throw out the conclusion? Do you
remember that, sir?

A. I don't recall what reference you're referring to. There's a lot of
situations that question could arise.

Q. As you sat on the stand today, did you feel like you explained
fully, accurately, fairly, and objectively, all of your findings in
the case, sir?

A. It's not all the findings.

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. That's vague and ambiguous, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, there are a lot of findings in this case.

What I testified to today and yesterday is based on questions directed
at me, but with specific reference to items found at the crime scene
and at Rockingham.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you feel that you gave this jury an accurate
representation of the basis for your technique?

Do you feel you gave them an accurate representation of what you do
when you do your analysis?

A. I don't know if we got into all of that.

Q. Do you feel that you gave the jury an accurate and fair description
of conclusions that you reached?

In other words, that you gave them all of the conclusions or all of
the inferences that can be drawn from the analysis you did?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. Conclusion; speculation; vague.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Why is it important to you to be objective?

A. Why?

Q. Yeah.

A. Well, to give an accurate representation of your findings, based on
your education, experience, and training.

Q. It's also important, isn't it, because what you do here is
basically interpretation, correct?

A. Well, it's mainly identification, and there is some interpretation
also associated with it.

Q. Well it's -- it's very subjective, what you do, correct?

A. It is subjective, yes.

Q. And because basically what you do is, you look at various items
microscopically, and without any checklist or any standard references,
you decide in your head whether or not various items, quote, unquote,
"match;" is that correct?

A. Well, that's one of the stages.

The first stage is the microscopic comparison. And it's a
determination by me, as an individual, as to whether or not the
questioned hair or questioned fibers exhibit the same characteristics
from that information, reach a conclusion.

Q. And unlike fingerprint analysis, which is more of an absolute
science -- you would agree, right?

A. Its been recognized by the Court as a positive form of
identification, yes.

Q. Unlike fingerprint analysis, you do not have a set number --

THE COURT: You know, Mr. Leonard --

MR. LEONARD: Yes, Your Honor?

THE COURT: It's really annoying to have somebody stand behind you and
talk over your head. And that's why I asked Mr. Kelly to stay away
from the jurors.

When you conduct your inquiry, I would ask you to do the same.

MR. LEONARD: I will remain stationary.

THE COURT: You don't have to remain stationary; just don't get behind
the jurors.

MR. LEONARD: There's not much room back here, but...

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Do you remember my last question? Because I don't.

A. No; you were talking about subjectivity.

Q. Yeah, I was comparing fingerprint analysis with what you do.

And in fingerprint analysis, there is a standard number of -- what do
you call it, standard number of --

A. Well, they're reference points that they use.

Also, they have a pattern. There are a number of different patterns of
fingerprints.

There's also characteristics on each pattern that can individualize
that pattern to the person as the ending point of ridges and so forth.

A lot of my field; I have some training in that.

Q. Based on that training, you know there have to be a certain number
of characteristics that are not the same in the question fingerprints
and the known fingerprints, correct? Certain minimum number?

A. I don't know about that certain number. I think that depends on
what organization you work for, as to who is doing the fingerprints.
So some agencies may require 12 points or 15 points, and other more
experienced examiners may go with six or five. It just depends on the
characteristics of that print and the group you're working with.

Q. But would you agree in the technique that you use, there is no
minimum number of characteristics that are required, no minimum number
of matching or like characteristics, right?

A. Right; there is no set number.

Q. Although in the field, that has been suggested as something that
should be required; isn't that true?

A. I don't believe by hair examiners.

Q. Are you familiar with publications in your field that talk about
checklists and numbers of comparisons that are required to make a
quote, unquote, "match?"

A. Well, I'm familiar with checklists and different attempts to
establish a checklist, check-off list of characteristics, but that's
not something that we've ever done. And I know there's a lot of crime
labs that don't have check-off lists; it's more of a training aid than
it is an identification aid.

Q. You used the checklist when you started out, correct.

A. When I started out. I think everybody likes to start out with
checklists.

Q. And there are still examiners in your office that continue to use
the checklists, correct?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Relevance, materiality, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I'm going have to use a rope.

(Indicating to Mr. Leonard.)

(Laughter.)

MR. LEONARD: It's a bad habit.

THE COURT: Well, just do the best you can.

MR. LEONARD: I'll try.

THE COURT: Consider the person you're standing behind.

THE COURT: Okay.

THE WITNESS: I don't know if anybody else uses it. There may be one or
two that use it periodically.

I don't recall seeing them. I review all their work, and I don't think
anybody uses it now.

Q. How much time did you spend with Mr. Medvene or the other lawyers
before testifying?

You mentioned that you had prepared for two days. How much time did
you actually spend with Mr. Medvene or one of the other lawyers?

A. Probably 15 -- 15 hours, maybe.

Q. Okay. And Mr. Medvene had a typed list of questions and answers.
Did you go through that with Mr. Medvene at any point?

A. At times, yes; I reviewed some of it.

Q. Okay.

So you sort of rehearsed your testimony; is that fair to say?

A. Well, he had questions that he was asking me, and I was answering
those questions. And he was -- eventually had them typed up, I
believe.

Q. Questions and answers, correct?

A. If he typed up the answers. He may have.

Q. Did you spend any time with Mr. Goldman yesterday?

A. I spoke with him briefly, yes.

Q. Did you develop any kind of a personal relationship with Mr.
Goldman during the criminal trial?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Vague, speculative, Your Honor; not relevant.

MR. LEONARD: Goes to bias, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: No, I wouldn't say it was a special relationship.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) I didn't say special; I said personal.

A. Personal, special. No; just seems like a nice man.

Q. Do you -- is your room at headquarters -- you have room 3931; is
that your --

A. 3931.

Q. Okay. Do you have a framed photograph of yourself with Fred Goldman
and Kim Goldman in your office?

A. I do.

I don't remember you ever being in the office, but I do.

Q. How many other victims of crimes or family members of victims of
crimes do you have framed pictures of in your office?

A. I don't believe I have any.

Q. Now, when you were testifying on direct examination for several
hours, is there anything you can think of that you left out that you
should have told the jury?

And let me be a little more specific about that.

For instance, you were asked about primary transfers and secondary
transfers with reference to some of these items. Do you remember that?

A. I do, yes.

Q. Okay. And my memory is that with regard to one of the Negroid-type
head hairs on the shirt of Ron Goldman, that you indicated to the jury
that it was your opinion that that was from a primary transfer; is
that correct, sir?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Misstates the testimony.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you say that, sir?

A. I think I said it could have been both, if I remember correctly.

Q. And when you said both, what did you mean by that, in real terms?

In other words, a primary contact, contact would be somehow with the
head of an African American coming in contact with the shirt, correct?

A. Right; that would be a primary transfer.

Q. And a secondary transfer would be what, because I don't remember
you explaining that to the jury.

A. Well, secondary could be -- and I believe I did, a hair found on
the clothing of an individual, and contact may occur. And that hair is
then transferred. So in that regard, it could be a secondary transfer,
although it's direct contact with the same person.

Q. Oh, you did say that; now I remember.

Is there -- isn't there another way that a secondary transfer could
occur?

A. Oh, well, secondary transfers can occur a lot of ways. It could
come from any other source where that hair or fiber might be.

Q. For instance, that hair could have been on the ground, right?

A. That's a source; that's right.

Q. And it could have come into contact with Mr. Goldman's shirt when
he fell to the ground or when he was moved, correct?

A. It's possible.

Q. Just -- it's just as likely as any kind of primary; wouldn't you
agree with that?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Foundation, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I'm not really sure. I assume it is possible, maybe
equally as likely, depending on the situation and the conditions.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Well, you're at a little disadvantage with regard
to the conditions and circumstances, aren't you. Sir?

A. I wasn't there, and I don't know a lot of the circumstances.

Q. You don't even know where the hair was found on the shirt, do you?

A. Well, no, I don't.

Q. Is there any reason that you didn't tell the jury about that form
of secondary transfer when you were sitting on the stand in direct?

MR. MEDVENE: He's arguing, Your Honor, and he can only answer the
questions we asked. We asked for some examples; he gave some examples.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: There was no reason. I was trying to be responsive to the
question. There's a lot of opportunities, situation that could result
in trace-evidence transfer.

Q. Well, you say there was no reason.

When you were sitting on the stand on direct examination and you were
asked an open question by Mr. Medvene, how could this transfer have
occurred, didn't you think it was important to be objective and to be
fair and to tell this jury every way that could happen?

Didn't you think that was important?

A. I think sometimes, many kinds -- like fiber transfers and hair
transfers are kind of common sense, so I perhaps overlook things that
you think might be important.

But hair can be transferred through contact, as I mentioned, between a
person and an object, "object" being the ground or a tree or a club or
...

Q. You just forgot about that?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. He said that -- he said that in
his answer at the beginning of his testimony.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) By the way, with regard to that, what you called a
Negroid hair on the shirt of Ron Goldman, that was a hair fragment,
wasn't it?

A. It was a hair fragment, yes.

Q. Isn't that much more difficult to try to compare than a full head
-- a full hair, from root -- from root to tip?

Wouldn't you agree with that?

A. Well, it's less to compare; it's not more difficult to compare. But
there's less of the material to work with.

Q. And your conclusion is much less reliable; isn't that true, sir?

A. No, I don't believe so.

Q. Do you remember testifying in a case in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
some years ago involving a murder, a doctor was accused of murdering
his wife?

A. I do remember the Wilkes-Barre case.

Q. Do you remember my associate, Anthony Cardinali, asking you some
questions about this very issue, hair fragments and the efficacy of
examination of hair fragments?

Do you remember that?

A. I don't.

Q. Would it surprise you to learn that in that trial --

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. It's about to be a speech. Before
the speech, we'd like to see the basis for what he's going to say. If
he has a transcript, he shouldn't make a speech, so the jury -- we
don't know what he's going to rely on.

MR. LEONARD: I'm probing his memory.

MR. MEDVENE: He won't know if what you're saying is accurate.

Let's see the basis.

MR. LEONARD: I'm gauging this witness's memory. I have every right to
do that.

THE COURT: Not on something that's collaborative.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Would you agree with me, sir, that the ideal is to
have a full questioned hair and not a small fragment? Would you agree
with me about that?

A. Right. The more hair you have, obviously, the -- it affects your
conclusions. Depends on the hair and characteristics.

Q. By the way, what you do in interpreting what you see and in trying
to opine as to how fibers could get from here to there, or hairs could
get from here to there, that's really not scientific; that's more of a
form of art. Would you agree to that -- with that?

A. No, I wouldn't agree with that.

Q. You are -- have you ever testified under oath, sir, that it was a
form of art?

A. I probably have used that terminology, it is a form of art.

Q. Okay.

So when you just said a minute ago, I don't agree with that, that it's
not a form of art, were you trying to fool this jury, sir?

A. No. I think that was I was trying to answer your question as
accurately as possible, as it was phrased.

And it is both objective -- it is both scientific and it is an -- it's
a trained ability to look at and interpret this type of material.

Q. It's a form of --

THE COURT: Just a minute. Jurors, ten minutes.

Bring the jury back in ten minutes.

(Recess taken at 11:02 A.M.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. LEONARD: May I approach?

THE COURT: You may.

Do you have -- you have one.

(Indicating to pen.)

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Before we get to the subjective versus objective
issue, I want to ask you a couple of other background questions.

Who's paying you for giving your testimony today?

A. You are; I am.

Q. The jury is?

A. Everybody is.

Q. Judge Fujisaki?

A. Taxpayers.

Q. And that's another reason why you want to be as objective and fair
and accurate as possible, right?

A. I guess that's down there somewhere, yes.

Q. Because we are all paying you?

A. That's all part of it, sure.

Q. Now, it's relatively unusual for you to become involved in a civil
trial, isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. You had to get special permission to do that, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, we were talking about the fact that, as you've acknowledged,
that your interpretation is of, more or less, a form of art, right?

Would you agree with that?

A. Experience and art is involved, yes.

Q. Okay. And it involves subjective analysis by you, correct?

MR. MEDVENE: Asked and answered, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Let's --

MR. LEONARD: Foundational.

THE COURT: We spent ten minutes on it before the break.

MR. LEONARD: I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) And the reason it's subjective is -- well, among
the reasons it's subjective is because what you're doing is, you're
looking at under 250 degree -- 250 magnification length of hairs,
right?

A. Right.

Q. And you're comparing them with other hairs or other fibers, for
that matter, right?

A. Right.

Q. And you know that even on an individual's head, many of the hairs
can be different, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. They have different characteristics?

A. That's right.

Q. And then, even along a single hair, the characteristics can change,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. So that, for instance, there is no catalogs of hairs that you know
of, correct?

There's no place that you can go that gives you standard -- standards
for hairs of any type, correct?

A. Not that I know of.

Q. And there's no data that tells you how many other people in the
world have the same exact hair; isn't that right, sir?

A. There is none, no.

Q. So you don't know whether a million people in the world have the
same hair, or just one other person, or no other person, as you sit
and do your analysis; is that right, sir?

A. Right. I couldn't give you a number.

Q. And the most you can say with regard to hair and fiber -- and
you've testified to this many times before -- is that the hair or
fiber could have -- could have come from a certain source; is that
right. Sir?

A. That's right.

Q. It's not a positive meaning of identification by any stretch, is
it?

A. It's not positive. We say that in every report.

Q. Okay.

So that when you put your conclusions up here on this board, it would
be fair to say that, for each and every one of them, you're saying
this could have been a source, correct?

A. Right. Each of those is a "could have," yes.

Q. Please go over to there, to the board, and on the acetate overlay,
would you write the words "could have" with a question mark, please.

A. Well --

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. It's an argumentative thing to ask
him to do.

Mr. Leonard can write "could have" with a question mark, if that's
what he wants to do.

MR. LEONARD: They've had the opportunity to have this board in front
of the jury. I think I should have the opportunity to create my own
exhibit.

THE COURT: You may.

MR. LEONARD: Thank you.

THE WITNESS: Which?

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Just -- there's an acetate overlay, just somewhere
where it's not interfering with any of the actual letters, so maybe on
the right-hand side.

A. You want the words "could have?"

Q. "Could have," with a question mark.

A. Question mark.

Q. A little larger, please.

THE COURT: You said you didn't want it to interfere with what's on
there.

MR. PETROCELLI: He can do it himself.

THE COURT: Why don't you go over there and show him exactly where you
want it.

THE WITNESS: I want you to be happy.

MR. LEONARD: Yeah, I know; you're here for me.

Right here, in filling those two squares, "could have."

THE WITNESS: You want it in the square?

MR. LEONARD: Yeah, filling the two squares.

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court please --

THE COURT: I don't know what you're doing.

MR. MEDVENE: It a show by Mr. Leonard.

I can write whatever he wants on the board.

THE COURT: You want it in every square?

MR. LEONARD: That's good enough. That's fine.

Can we mark that next -- whatever the next exhibit number is.

THE COURT: Mark what?

MR. LEONARD: The overlay.

THE CLERK: 2171.

(The Chart created by Mr. Deedrick, formerly marked Plaintiffs'
Exhibit 2169, now with markings placed by Mr. Deedrick on acetate
covering the same chart was marked for identification as Defendants'
Exhibit No. 2171.)

MR. LEONARD: You can resume the stand.

(Witness complies.)

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) How many hairs on an individual's head, sir?

A. Depends on the person, but I've heard 100,000.

Q. How many people on the earth?

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court please ...

THE COURT: Sustain my own objection to it. This is getting a little
ridiculous.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) A lot of hairs out there; would you agree?

A. There's a lot of hairs.

Q. Lot of fibers?

A. There are.

Q. We're virtually swimming in hairs and fibers as we walk through our
daily lives, sir?

A. Well, we are in a way, yes.

Q. And as we swim through these hairs and fibers, we pick some up
along here, along there, drop some, pick some more up, drop some,
right?

A. That's right.

Q. Like little garbage collectors?

A. Yeah, little pig pens, I think.

Q. Okay.

So if a person frequents a particular location --

Okay, you follow me so far?

A. I follow you.

Q. Isn't it likely that that person is going to drop fibers
occasionally, and hairs --

A. Yes.

Q. -- from other places?

A. Right, could.

Q. From a car, right?

From his or her own head?

A. Correct.

Q. Right?

A. That's right.

Q. Okay.

And, of course, you had -- you had all that in mind when you were
giving your opinions earlier in your direct examination, correct?

A. Sure.

Q. Okay.

And you would agree that virtually all of the items and all of the
fibers and hairs that you've talked about could have been located in
the environment at Bundy, don't you?

You agree with that; it could have been there before this crime ever
occurred?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. That calls for speculation; foundation, Your
Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: No, I couldn't agree with that.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Do you have any information about how often Mr.
Simpson was over at the Bundy location?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Why not?

THE COURT: I'll sustain my own objection to that.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Was that important to you, sir, in rendering your
opinions in this case, to know that?

A. It has a bearing on the weight of the findings.

Q. Explain that. How does it have a bearing on the weight of your
findings?

A. Well, in some situations, especially when you have family members,
close associates, significance of certain hairs and fibers may have
diminished value, simply because of acknowledged contact, acknowledged
living arrangements.

Q. But you, as you sit here today, you have no idea how many times Mr.
Simpson, prior to June 12, 1994, was at the Bundy location, right? No
idea?

MR. MEDVENE: Asked and answered, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You have no idea how many times the Bronco was
used to transport children and dogs and material from Rockingham to
Bundy; you have no idea, correct?

A. I don't.

Q. Did you ever ask anyone about that?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Does that have any bearing on your opinions in
this case?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Relevance. Same objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I'm not sure I understand the question. What findings?

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You talk about crime area transfers and secondary
transfers. Does that have any bearing at all, in your opinion, the
number of times that the Bronco was used to transport items, the
number of times that people used the Bronco, the number of times that
dogs were in the Bronco and ended up on the property at Bundy?

Does that have any bearing at all?

A. Well, it might in some ways, yes. Just depends how far you want to
stretch your imagination as to movement of hair and fibers.

Q. Well, did you ask anyone about that information, if it might have
some bearing on your opinions, sir?

Did you ever ask anyone?

A. Well, I accepted the fact that there was a possibility of transfer
that the victim -- one of the victims could have been in the Bronco,
without that -- without knowing that, simply because of the
relationship between the suspect in the case and the victim.

But I didn't. I didn't know that. I mean, I expected to find her hair
in the Bronco.

Q. Did you consider the possibility that the fiber from the Bronco
that you say was found on the knit cap, or the fiber from the Bronco
that you say was found on the Rockingham glove, did you consider at
all the possibility that those fibers could have been already at the
Bundy location, somewhere in the soil, prior to this crime?

Did you think about that at all, sir?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Speculative and use of the word "possibility."

MR. LEONARD: He used it in every answer.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. MEDVENE: I don't believe so.

THE COURT: I think I overruled the objection.

MR. LEONARD: Thank you.

THE COURT: So let's stop the speeches and get on with the case.

MR. LEONARD: Can you answer the question?

THE WITNESS: I can.

I --

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Yes or no?

A. Well, let's go over that question again.

Q. Did you consider the possibility that the Bronco, the fiber that
you've identified as coming from the Bronco -- did you consider the
possibility before you came into this courtroom, sir, that that fiber
could have been on the ground, having been transferred, as you put it,
prior to June 12, 1994?

Did you consider that at all? Yes or no?

A. Yes, that's a possibility.

Q. It's an equal possibility with the others that you've spun out for
the jury; isn't that fair to say?

MR. MEDVENE: Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. LEONARD: You can answer the question.

THE WITNESS: With what other evidence? Just, I mean, you're throwing
everything into the same ball and I'm not sure that's possible to do
that, especially with hairs that are found inside a hat, woven into
the fabric of the hat.

I don't suspect that would be as logical if it was just laying on the
surface of the soil, if you're assuming they're all over the ground.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Can you pick up your notes, please.

Do you have your notes with you?

A. I do.

Q. Show me in your notes, sir, anywhere where you've indicated that
you found hairs that were interwoven in the knit cap. Show me.

MR. LEONARD: We'll mark these next.

THE CLERK: Are they already marked?

MR. P. BAKER: No.

THE WITNESS: No.

THE CLERK: 2172.

(The instrument herein referred to as Mr. Deedrick's Notes was marked
for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2172.)

THE WITNESS: I didn't indicate that from the notes.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Thank you.

Now, you did consider -- so we get back on track, you did consider the
possibility of secondary transfers for all these items in the ambient
background, if you will, at Bundy, didn't you?

That is the existing background of debris, hairs and fibers, you
considered that, right?

A. That was a consideration, sure.

Q. And it was -- it's equally as likely that that's how the hairs and
fibers ended up on all of these items, as it is that they ended up on
there through primary contact between an assailant and any victim;
isn't that true, sir?

A. No, I can't agree with that.

Q. Don't agree with that?

A. Doesn't -- it is not logical to me.

Q. Okay.

And you don't -- and in coming to that conclusion, you don't even know
where the hair was found, that the Negroid hair was found on Goldman's
shirt, do you?

A. No. That was from a debris scraping, if I remember correctly.

Q. You don't know where it was on the shirt, do you, sir?

A. No. Inside or outside, I don't know.

Q. Okay.

And you don't know where the Bronco fiber was on the Rockingham glove,
do you?

A. No, I don't.

Q. In fact, the Rockingham glove was in a bag, correct?

A. I got a debris pack, I believe.

Q. And on the debris pack, did it not indicate that the Bronco fiber
from the Rockingham glove was actually found in the bag and not on the
glove?

Didn't it say that, sir?

You can check your notes if you need to.

A. That's right; it was.

Q. So you have no idea where that was on the glove, do you?

A. No.

Q. And there's no indication of -- by the way, of any blood on that
fiber, is there, sir?

A. I don't recall. No, I don't recall any blood.

Q. You would have written it down if there was, wouldn't you?

A. Well, there was an awful lot of blood. I may have; I may not have.
But I didn't write it down.

I don't recall any blood on that fiber.

Q. Your best memory is there wasn't any?

A. I think I said that, yes.

Q. Now, your analysis, in general, is so subjective that you don't
even bother to keep notes of precisely what you see in the microscope
with regard to your comparison; is that correct?

A. I don't write everything down, no.

Q. Well, you didn't write anything down here about what you actually
observed when you compared fibers and hairs in this case, did you?

A. No. That's not what I routinely do. I don't routinely do that, nor
does anybody else in the unit.

Q. Okay.

And you also know that hair and fiber experts often differ about their
conclusions about whether or not particular items match, right?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. He's not talking about this case.
It's vague and speculative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I don't know if I understand what you mean by "often." I
just don't know.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) It happens, doesn't it?

A. Oh, it happens, sure.

Q. It happens a lot, doesn't it?

A. I can't answer that. I don't know what "a lot" is.

Q. You can't answer that?

A. Doesn't happen a lot in our laboratory. But I mean, I can't account
for everybody's laboratory.

Q. Well, your laboratory has got quite a record with regard to
proficiency testing, right?

A. I don't know what that means exactly.

Q. Well, since 1986, every single examiner who has been tested has
gotten 100 percent, right?

A. All on the fiber and hair proficiency.

Q. Got 100 percent?

A. Right, got the right answer.

Q. And those are -- strike that.

There was something else that was found in the knit cap, the Bundy
knit hat, wasn't there?

A. There was other material found, yes.

Q. There was a lot of material found?

A. There were other fibers, yes.

Q. There were a number -- and by the way, there are a number of fibers
and hairs of all kinds that you haven't talked about here that were
found on all these items, right?

A. That's right.

Q. That's normal, right?

A. It's not unusual to find a lot of debris on a lot of items.

Q. Sure. Because everywhere we walk, everywhere we go, everywhere we
happen to lay our clothes down or our bags or anything, we pick up all
types of hairs and fibers, correct?

A. Well, depends on the surface, depends on the contact. We go through
life picking up things and losing things.

Q. And for instance, there were various kinds of dog and cat hairs
that were found on some of these items, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And did you conclude that those found their way onto these items by
way of primary transfer or secondary transfer, or did you make any
conclusion?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Compound number of items he's going to; and
it's not relevant, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I'll overrule it. It is rather compound.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You understand it?

A. Yes.

Well, we didn't talk.

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me. The nature of the objection is compound. You
sustained the objection.

You should ask a new question.

THE COURT: I guess he just wants to make you ask that question again.

MR. LEONARD: He's trying to cramp my style, I think.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) On many of these items -- you understand that
part?

A. Right; I understand that.

Q. Okay.

There were cat hairs, right?

A. Right.

Q. Some of the items had dog hairs on them?

A. Right.

Mostly dog hairs. Mostly dog hairs.

Q. And some cat hairs?

A. If I remember right, yes.

Q. Did you know, by the way, that there hadn't been a cat at that
apartment -- at least, the people who lived in the Bundy location
hadn't owned a cat for six months prior to this; did you know that,
sir?

A. No.

Q. That doesn't surprise you, though, that there still would be cat
hairs there?

A. Well, I don't know if you can say that they're from that cat,
necessarily.

I mean, I'm sure cats jump over fences. There's probably a lot of cats
in the neighborhood. Assuming it came from that cat --

Q. Now, inside -- according to the LAPD, anyway -- inside the knit
cap, there were Negroid head hairs that were dissimilar to Mr.
Simpson's correct?

A. There were, yes.

Q. And they were dissimilar to everyone that was involved in the case,
at least the examples that you got?

A. Right. That's right.

Q. And is there any particular reason you didn't put that up on the
board in direct?

MR. MEDVENE: Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained. It wasn't asked.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you discuss that with Mr. Medvene prior to
your testimony?

Did you tell him that there were Negroid head hairs in the knit cap
that were inconsistent with Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes, he was aware of that.

Q. Okay.

He didn't ask you that question?

MR. MEDVENE: It's argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. LEONARD: I'll withdraw it.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) And those, according to the record, were found
inside the knit cap; is that right?

You can check your record.

A. Yeah, I believe that's correct.

Let me check.

That's right. There were some.

Q. Now, as far as the Bronco fiber goes, there was a single fiber that
was found, you don't know where, but apparently found in -- somehow
adjacent to or associated with the Rockingham glove, right, a single
fiber?

A. Right.

I think it's from the bag, if I remember.

Q. Right. Now -- and there was also a single fiber which you say came
from the Bronco, found somewhere in relation to the Bundy hat,
correct?

A. Right.

Q. You don't know whether that was on the Bundy hat, do you?

A. No.

Q. In fact, it was only discovered by you after the Bundy hat had been
examined two times before; is that right?

A. I'm not sure what you mean. How many times it may have been
examined prior to my getting it?

Q. Didn't you get -- before you ever examined the knit cap, didn't you
get a debris pack?

A. Right. It was examined. I don't know how many times it may have
been examined.

Q. Okay.

And the way you found that -- and correct me if I'm wrong -- is that
you took the knit cap, right --

And by the way, that was the only actual piece of evidence, as opposed
to debris packets, actually clothing or physical evidence that you
got, right?

A. That's right.

Q. At least at that time?

A. Right.

Q. You took the knit cap and you took it into what, a separate room
from the examination room?

A. Right.

Q. And you -- what, do you spread some kind of paper on the floor?

A. On a table.

Q. On a table. And you used some kind of device to scrape the knit
cap?

A. Spatula, large spatula.

Q. And then you examined the debris that resulted or what came down
from the knit cap?

A. Right.

Q. And you found a single Bronco fiber, correct?

A. Well, I don't -- I found a single fiber that could have originated
from a Bronco.

Q. Right?

A. Right.

Q. And you could barely see that; is that fair to say?

You could barely see that with the naked eye?

A. Right. Right. It's a small piece. You can hardly see those fibers
because of their likeness.

Q. Right.

And by the way, when you say "likeness," you're talking about color,
right?

A. Color.

Q. They're also light; in the physical sense, they can literally float
around, isn't that true?

A. Well, they're probably one of the heavier fibers. If you're
assuming that all fibers are floating around, they do. They're bigger;
they're heavier.

Q. They move very easily from place to place; they get on people and
people can move them, correct?

A. Well, that's why we look at clothing items as evidence, because of
that.

Q. Prior to -- and this was the last thing, according to your notes,
that you did, the scraping of the knit cap, correct?

A. Right.

Q. And if you would turn to the last page of your notes, please.

Actually, it's not; it's the second-to-last page.

(Witness complies.)

A. Oh, this thing here.

Q. Yeah, the typewritten notes.

What exhibit number are the typewritten notes, please?

THE CLERK: The notes of Mr. Deedrick?

MR. BAKER: 2172?

THE CLERK: Correct.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Got that?

A. I do.

(Witness reviews notes.)

Q. You have Q47? Is that the knit cap?

A. That's right.

Q. It says general scraping, right?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, prior to this, there had been an examination of what you --
what you characterize as a shovel, shovel and plastic sheeting, and a
towel, which you knew had come from the Bronco, correct?

A. That's right; that's where they told me it came from.

Q. Okay. And on those particular items, there was also a single Bronco
fiber found, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, by the way, there was never any blood found on any of those
items, correct, that you know of?

A. I don't know.

Q. And the shovel, that was kind of a mucking shovel; it had a square
nose to it. Do you remember that?

Did you ever see the shovel?

A. I saw a picture?

I think it did have a square end to it.

Q. Okay.

And you know that the plastic was something that actually came with
the Bronco, right?

Remember hearing that?

A. I remember hearing that.

Q. In any event, that was the sequence, correct?

A. Right.

Q. Now, you would agree with me, wouldn't you, that hairs and fibers
can be inadvertently transferred, even in an environment like your
laboratory? That's something that can happen; do you agree with that?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And, in fact. You try to take the precautions to avoid that, don't
you?

A. We do.

Q. In fact, don't you sometimes pluck your own hair out and make sure
your hair hasn't gotten into exemplars that you're looking at?

A. We've done that, yes.

Q. It's something you do, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So you would agree with me that it is certainly possible that hairs
and fibers can be transferred from items that you're actually
examining, right?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor? Anything is possible.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I would -- again, I don't -- maybe -- let's go over that
question again so I'm clear; can we?

MR. LEONARD: Yeah.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You told me that you take precautions, if you can,
to avoid inadvertent transfer, secondary transfers or primary
transfers, for that matter, between items that you're examining in
your lab?

A. Right.

Q. And you do that because you know it's possible that that can occur,
correct?

A. Right.

Q. Otherwise, you wouldn't take the precautions?

A. We don't want to contaminate; that's correct.

Q. But it's possible for that to happen?

A. It's possible.

Anything is not possible, but that's possible.

Q. Now, you have attempted to be, again, as fair and objective and up
front, straight on with this jury as you possibly can, correct?

MR. MEDVENE: Asked and answered, Your Honor, several times.

MR. LEONARD: Withdrawn.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You mentioned early on in your direct examination
that you had testified in hundreds of cases. Remember that?

A. I do.

Q. And you said that. And when you said that, you intended to convey
to this jury that your testimony and your scientific technique had
been accepted in all the courts that you had testified in; is that
fair to say, sir?

That's what you wanted to tell this jury?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Sustain the objection as to the form of the question.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you intend, when you said that you had
testified in hundreds of cases, to impart to this jury that your
testimony had been permitted, that it was accepted scientifically in
all the courts that you have testified in? Is that what you intended
by saying that to this jury?

A. No, it wasn't my intention.

Q. And you didn't because you know that your testimony has been
excluded, and it happened in 1993 in a case in Oklahoma. Do you
remember that, sir?

A. In Oklahoma, right.

That's the only time.

Q. And that was the Chief Judge of the Federal District Court there,
right?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Collateral.

THE COURT: Sustained.

This is this court, and this court is admitting it.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Now, you would agree with me, sir, would you not,
that for each and every one of the associations that you've made in
the case -- okay -- every one of those primary transfers, that there's
an equally plausible secondary transfer that could have occurred.
Would you agree with that?

A. I don't know if I would agree with equally plausible, but secondary
transfers could account for some of this evidence that I talked about,
yes.

MR. LEONARD: I don't have any further questions.

THE COURT: Anything further?

MR. MEDVENE: Yes, Your Honor.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MEDVENE:

Q. You said that the -- that one of Mr. Simpson's head hairs, I
believe, that you examined, was a fragment?

A. That's right. There were several, I guess, if you look at all the
evidence.

Q. And was one that was a fragment found on Mr. Goldman's shirt?

A. Right. That's right.

Q. And did you feel you had an adequate sample to examine against Mr.
Simpson's known hair sample?

A. I did.

Q. I'd ask that you put on the board what you have as No. 38, K7, Mr.
Simpson's known hair sample. I believe it is on the board that we've
previously looked at.

MR. GELBLUM: On the screen or...

MR. MEDVENE: I'm sorry, on the TV monitor.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And would you put the fragment, which is Q23, the
hair found on Mr. Goldman's shirt that Mr. Leonard asked you about
that you identified as matching or the same microscopic
characteristics as Mr. Simpson.

MR. LEONARD: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. All right.

Now, let's do it again so we can all see it.

Mr. Leonard asked you if there was enough to analyze, to say it
matched or had the same microscopic characteristics.

Let's first put up the known Hair of Mr. Simpson, the hair we knew
came from his head. That's K7.

And let's run over it, Q23, which is the fragment.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And can you explain to the ladies and gentlemen of
the jury why you said they had the same microscopic characteristics,
or did it matter?

A. Well, you've already gone through that. I think it was pretty
visible on one of the video things.

MR. LEONARD: I object. This is asked and answered.

THE COURT: You raised a fragment issue. I'm going to allow
examination.

What exhibits are we looking at?

We've got two numbers. Are these exhibits court exhibit numbers?

MR. MEDVENE: Yes, Your Honor. They're on the board.

THE COURT: Well, they're not on the board. You're showing them on the
screen and you're overlaying something on top of each. What are you
doing?

MR. PETROCELLI: We'll need new numbers for those on the television,
Your Honor.

THE CLERK: 2173 is next in order.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

THE COURT: There are two exhibits.

MR. PETROCELLI: 2173 and 2174. 2173 will be K7, the known head hair
from Mr. Simpson, and 2174 would be the hair found on Mr. Goldman's
shirt.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of known head hair
from Mr. Simpson (K7) was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2173.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of hair found on Ron
Goldman's shirt (Q23) was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2174.)

THE COURT: Which is?

MR. MEDVENE: 2174.

THE COURT: You had a Q number.

MR. MEDVENE: Yes, sir. Q23.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) There was -- I'm sorry; I probably interrupted you
on your answer.

You were going to tell the jury -- we just run the pictures, actually,
by them.

Would you just briefly describe the microscopic characteristics that
caused you to say microscopic characteristics were the same and/or
there -- that there was a match?

A. When I do a comparison, that is, compare question hair with the
known hair, you line up particular points along the hair with a
shorter fragment, we're talking about here, that was taken off of Mr.
Goldman's shirt. You'd have to make a determination of where it might
fit into that known hair sample.

It's not uncommon to find fragments in cases.

In this particular one, I saw the color of the hair, the one side
pigmentation, the thickness of the cuticle, the size of the pigment
granules, distribution of the pigment, presence or absence of certain
characteristics such as particle fusi or -- ovoid bodies, the general
shape and size of the hair. Those are things basically that I use for
comparison.

Q. Now, Mr. Leonard also asked you certain of the hair that you
analyzed inside the knit cap.

I'll put on the board K7 again. It's known head hair from Mr. Simpson.
That's number 26.

And that will be 2175, Your Honor.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of K7, Known Head
Hair from Mr. Simpson, was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2175.)

MR. MEDVENE: And 2176 will be Q10, a hair found inside the knit hat at
Bundy.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Hair found inside the knit hat
at Bundy, (Q10), was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit
No. 2176.)

MR. MEDVENE: Again, let's put them on the board.

First, 2175, which is K7, the known head hair of Mr. Simpson.

(Exhibit 2175 displayed.)

MR. MEDVENE: And Q10.

(Q10 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Why did you say the hairs that it's just -- again,
had the same microscopic characteristics or matched?

A. For the same reasons. It's pigmentation, thickness of the cuticle,
size of the hair, distribution of the pigment, presence and absence --
and in this case, there's an absence of ovoid bodies and cortical
fusi, the look of the hair, and the size -- I mentioned the size. All
of them are very similar. All the questioned hairs that were matched
and the known hairs were very similar to each other. It didn't matter
which hair.

Q. I'm just going to show you one more with reference to the knit hat,
so it will be 2177.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of known head hair of
Mr. Simpson, No. 34, was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2177.)

MR. MEDVENE: Again, the known head hair of Mr. Simpson, which is No.
34.

And 2178, which is Q14, a hair found inside the knit cap at Bundy,
which you identified as microscopically identical to Mr. Simpson's--or
the same microscopic characteristics to Mr. Simpson.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Head Hair found in
cap at Bundy, (Q14), was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2178.)

MR. MEDVENE: Can you run that on the board once more? First the known
hair of Mr. Simpson.

Now, over that, the questioned hair.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Can you explain to the ladies and gentlemen of the
jury why you gave the opinion that those two hairs had the same
microscopic characteristics?

A. Yeah. Not same reasons; that is, the color, size, shape,
pigmentation, distribution of pigment, streakiness of pigment,
thickness of the cuticle is very thin. Size of the pigment granules,
ovoid bodies, cortical fusi those are the reasons mainly.

Q. In the 10,000 or so occasions when you've been asked to
differentiate between a victim's hair and a suspect's hair, have you
ever been unable to make that identification?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) With respect to the questions we've asked you
about hairs or fibers flying around, in connection with your testimony
that you felt it logical that the carpet fiber from Mr. Simpson's
Bronco that was on the Bundy hat got there from -- probably sitting on
the Bronco, is it possible that that carpet fiber from the Bronco
somehow, when the window was open, flew out of the Bronco, maybe one
gray day, when Mr. Simpson was driving that Bronco, flew out on its
own from the Bronco, and landed on the Bundy hat sometime around the
night of June 12, because the Bundy hat was just lying there at the
murder scene?

Is that possible?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, Your Honor. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Well, when you say that -- when you gave your
explanation of what you felt was a most reasonable explanation of how
carpet fiber from -- identical to that in Mr. Simpson's Bronco found
its way to the Bundy hat, the hat found at the murder scene, having
the same carpet fiber as Mr. Simpson's Bronco, why did you say that
was the logical -- or why did you believe that what was found at Bundy
had had some contact with Mr. Simpson's Bronco?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, that misstates his evidence. He said several
times --

MR. MEDVENE: Objection to speaking objection.

MR. LEONARD: It misstates what he testified to.

I will approach the side bar if I need to. Absolutely misstates what
he said.

THE COURT: I'll sustain the objection.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Mr. Deedrick, do you have any reason to believe
that the carpet fiber from Mr. Simpson's Bronco somehow flew out the
window and landed on a hat that was found at Bundy, that we referred
to as the Bundy hat?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: I think I'll allow it. I don't know what kind of a
probative question that is; it has no probative value at all.

(BY MR. MEDVENE) Would you answer the question, please. The Court
permitted you to answer.

THE WITNESS: Oh, I.

THE COURT: It's like asking, is anything possible.

MR. MEDVENE: That's what Mr. Leonard asked, is anything possible.

MR. LEONARD: Oh, Your Honor, I --

THE COURT: Excuse me. The question is, is anything possible in terms
of how the fiber got on the hat.

THE WITNESS: Should I answer that question, Your Honor?

THE COURT: I guess so. That's what the question is.

MR. MEDVENE:

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) All right. Let me ask you, Mr. Deedrick, could you
tell us, in your experience of 18 years or so doing this work, what do
you -- what is your opinion as to how the transfer was made of the
carpet fiber identical to that in Mr. Simpson's Bronco to the Bundy
hat and the Rockingham glove?

MR. LEONARD: Misstates his testimony and it's been asked and answered.

THE COURT: Well, we will take a noon recess.

1:30.

And, Mr. Medvene, why don't you work on that question.

(At 12:00 P.M. a recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1996
1:38 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were resumed in open court in the presence
of the jury:)

Douglas Deedrick, the witness on the stand at the time of the recess,
having been previously duly sworn, was examined and testified further
as follows:

THE CLERK: You're still under oath. Would you please state your name
again for the record?

THE WITNESS: Douglas W. Deedrick.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

THE COURT: Okay.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MEDVENE:

Q. Agent Deedrick, you referred to your work and examination this
morning as a combination, and part of our -- the combination, the part
of science. Could you tell us what you meant by that?

A. Well, hair analysis, especially with hair analysis, it's a
subjective interpretation of objective criteria.

What that -- what that means is you make a determination as to the
value or the identity of a particular structure based upon the way
they look, based upon their scientific biological appearance, through
a microscope.

So it's a combination of both. A lot of the subjectivity or art, as
some people refer to it, comes into determining the value of
something, what it's worth. And that has a basis. In experience, you
have to take that into consideration with all the hairs that you've
seen, all the case work that you've seen. So it is a combination of
both.

Q. Now, Mr. Leonard, in questioning, talked about the possibility of
human hairs or fibers, or Bronco fibers, floating around in the air
and I just want to pick up, 'cause of time, just a couple items. With
respect --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object to the preamble. It misstates my
questions to this witness.

THE COURT: I think you talked about floating hairs. Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) With respect -- with respect to Mr. Goldman's
shirt, did you find any human hairs, other than those that you
testified to, in your opinion, matched the known samples of Nicole
Brown, Ronald Goldman and Mr. Simpson?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object. It's beyond the scope and also,
once again, there's a lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I did not. I found no other hairs.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) With respect to Mr. Goldman's pants, did you find
any hairs from anyone other than Nicole Brown and possibly Ronald
Goldman?

A. Again, what was the item?

Q. When on -- on Ronald Goldman pants?

A. On his pants, no. And again, we're referring to hairs, comparable
type hairs?

Q. Yes?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you find any Bronco fibers that floated down on Mr. Goldman's
shirt that you were able to identify?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: On his shirt?

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Yes.

MR. LEONARD: Calls for speculation as well.

THE COURT: Overruled. Floated down, yes. Sustained on that.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Were there any Bronco fibers identified on Mr.
Goldman's shirt?

A. No.

Q. Any on his pants?

A. No.

Q. With respect, there's questions about the Bundy glove. Did you find
any other human hairs on the Bundy glove other than those that matched
Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. I did not.

Q. Did you share the hair and fiber evidence that you testified about,
underlying slides, all the evidence regarding matches, did you share
that with Mr. Simpson's defense expert?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, Your Honor. Outside the scope and irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

(BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you -- did you make available and give to Mr.
Simpson's defense expert all the underlying material from which you
testified to today?

MR. LEONARD: Same objections, Your Honor. I move to strike the
question at this point.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes. All that material was made available and it was
examined. I understand he agreed with me.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I move to strike the last response.

THE COURT: Everything stricken except "yes."

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did any expert, to your knowledge, ever disagree
with any of the findings that you testified to.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I move to strike.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. LEONARD: I ask the jury be admonished at this point.

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court --

THE COURT: Disregard the question.

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court please, Mr. Leonard talked about --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, please. I don't want speaking objections in
front of the jury. If Your Honor --

MR. MEDVENE: Your Honor, may we approach the bench, Your Honor?

THE COURT: No. The objection is sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Mr. Leonard asked you a general question, not
about this case, but about, do experts ever disagree, and I'm asking
you, did the defense expert who had your material or any other expert
ever disagree with you on any of the results you testified to today
about matches?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I move to strike once again. Objection.
Irrelevant.

THE COURT: I think --

MR. LEONARD: Calls for hearsay.

THE COURT: You opened the door on that one, overruled.

THE WITNESS: No, no one disagreed with the results that I came up to.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you report out -- is the policy of the FBI to
ever report out on batch, as you reported in this case, if that match
is not confirmed, within your unit by at least one other hair and
fiber examiner?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Beyond the scope, asked and answered.

THE COURT: Asked on direct. Overruled -- Sustained.

MR. MEDVENE: I have nothing further.

Thank you very much, Agent Deedrick.

RECROSS EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. Agent Deedrick, you were asked on redirect examination about hairs
and fibers floating through the air.

Let's me ask you this: If a blanket was brought out of the residence
at Bundy, introduced into the crime scene and spread out, in the
environment of the crime scene, before all these articles were
collected, could that very possibly account for some of the hairs and
fibers that I've identified that have been spread around the crime
scene?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, Your Honor. Outside the scope and assuming
facts not in evidence.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. MEDVENE: And no foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: It could -- it depends what's on the surface of the
blanket.

MR. LEONARD: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Now, I want to make sure it's perfectly clear to
the jury what you were showing them when you showed them on redirect
examination, some 250 times blown up, photographs. I want to make sure
they understand what you were doing.

MR. MEDVENE: The Court, please --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Those photographs that you showed, they represent
a very small minute portion of the hair that -- hairs that you
examined, correct?

A. That's right, it does.

Q. In fact, the hair that -- the hairs that you examined, were how
long -- I'm talking about on the redirect.

THE COURT: Sustained my objection. You've been through this on your
cross already.

MR. LEONARD: But Your Honor, he went into it on detail in redirect.

THE COURT: Just sustained on redirect.

MR. LEONARD: Excuse me?

THE COURT: I'll sustain my objection.

MR. LEONARD: Can you put the chart up?

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) On redirect, you were asked about items that
weren't found, correct?

You were asked about items of hair and fibers that weren't found on
various items in the crime scene. Do you remember that?

A. I do.

Q. Now, you've seen this chart before, haven't you?

A. I have, yes.

Q. And that chart, at least this portion of it, accurately represents
some of the things that were found and weren't found; is that correct?

A. It does represent some of the things, yes.

Q. Okay. So you would agree that there was no hair consistent with
O.J. Simpson found on the Bundy glove, correct?

(Exhibit 1159 is displayed on TV screen.)

MR. MEDVENE: This is outside the scope of the redirect.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, he went --

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, he went into detail.

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me. This is argument.

THE COURT: Sustained.

THE COURT: This wasn't covered on redirect.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, can we approach?

THE COURT: No.

MR. LEONARD: May we approach, Your Honor?

THE COURT: No.

MR. LEONARD: Don't have any further questions of this witness.

THE COURT: Okay. Okay. You're excused.

THE WITNESS: Thank you.

THE COURT: Thank you.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart listing items of evidence
that were not found was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 1159.)

THE CLERK: Was there an exhibit referred to?

I'd like to get for the record, what 1159 is.

MR. LEONARD: It is a chart indicating items of evidence that were not
found on various evidentiary items, item hairs and fibers that were
not found.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court please, we would move in 2169.

THE CLERK: One moment, please.

Thank you.

MR. MEDVENE: 2169, 520, 521, 503, 524, 525, 527, 530, 531, 532, 516,
517, 2173, 2174, 2175, 2176, 2177, and 2178.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2169, was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 520 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 521 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 503 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 524 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 525 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 527 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 530 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 531 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 532 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 516 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 517 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2173 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2174 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2175 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2176 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2177 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2178 was
received in evidence.)

MR. BAKER: Object to 2169. That's cumulative and --

MR. MEDVENE: We didn't move in 2169.

THE CLERK: Yes you did.

MR. BAKER: Yes you did.

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me, the first one.

MR. PETROCELLI: That's our chart.

MR. BAKER: The chart, I object to it.

MR. MEDVENE: That's the chart.

THE COURT: Which chart?

MR. MEDVENE: That was the chart that Mr. Deedrick prepared.

THE COURT: Okay. Overruled.

MR. MEDVENE: Thank you, Your Honor.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, we ask that 2171, 2172 and 1159 be moved in.

THE COURT: Okay.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2171.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2172.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1159.)

ROBIN COTTON, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: And if you please, state and spell your name for the
record?

THE WITNESS: My name is Robin Cotton, R-O-B-I-N, C-O-T-T-O-N.

MR. MEDVENE: Oh, excuse me, your honor, can we reserve on 1159? There
was no testimony about it. Mr. Baker just raised that. I think that's
what was put on the board. There weren't any questions, as I remember,
asked about it. Can we reserve on that and address it later? We object
to --

THE COURT: Okay. Objection is noted and you may raise that objection
at a later time.

THE CLERK: Received?

THE COURT: Received. You may move to strike it. DIRECT EXAMINATION BY
MR. LAMBERT:

Q. May I proceed, Your Honor?

A. You may.

Q. Dr. Cotton, what is your occupation?

A. I'm the Laboratory Director at Cellmark Diagnostics in German Town,
Maryland.

Q. What is Cellmark Diagnostics?

A. We are --we are a private laboratory and we do paternity testing
and testing on biological evidence.

Q. And could you tell us what your formal educational background is?

A. I have a Bachelors Degree of Science with a major in Biology. I
have a Master's Degree of Science which major in biology and both of
those are from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. I have
a Ph.D. in molecular biology and biochemistry from the University of
California at Irvine.

Q. And when did you receive your Ph.D. degree?

A. In 1980.

Q. Can you describe briefly for us what molecular biology is?

A. It's basically a set of techniques that allow you to study the
molecular interactions that occur in cells that allow cells to
function.

Q. And what is biochemistry?

A. It's sort of the same thing.

Q. Okay. And in your studies to obtain your Ph.D. in these fields, did
you deal at all with DNA?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Can you tell us what aspects of your studies involve DNA?

A. DNA is packaged into chromosomes and my work at Irvine was involved
in looking at the proteins that helped to package the DNA up to form
the chromosomes.

Q. Now, after obtaining your Ph.D. degree, did you -- what did you do
next?

A. I went to the University of Iowa and did a post -- Post Doctoral
Fellow which is going to someone who has an established laboratory and
working in their laboratory and I worked there in the Department of
Biochemistry for three years.

Q. Did you work there, also involve any aspects of DNA?

A. Yes, it did.

Q. After your postdoctoral studies, what did you do next?

A. I went to the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland
and I worked there for about four and a half years.

Q. And what did you do while you were -- Well, first maybe you could
tell us what the National Institute of Health does?

A. It is a government funded research institute which is really
composed of many smaller institutes. There's probably, I don't really
remember, but maybe 3 to 5,000 scientists. It sort of looks like a
good size college campus. And it's -- all the people there are
involved in government funded research which is mostly health related.

Q. And what specific research were you involved with?

A. I was involved with a unit that was looking at the genetics of
alcoholism and we were mapping some of the genes that are not
necessarily involved in alcoholism, but involved in how alcohol is
metabolized when it's -- when you've had some.

Q. And that also was a DNA related research; was it?

A. It was.

Q. Let me show you what I'd like to mark as next exhibit in order
which I believe is --

THE CLERK: 2179.

MR. LAMBERT: 1179.

THE CLERK: 21.

MR. LAMBERT: Excuse me, 2179.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Is that a copy of your current curriculum vitae,
Doctor?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Does that list the various articles that you have authored since
you obtained your Ph.D.?

(The instrument herein referred to as the curriculum vitae of Dr.
Robin Cotton was received in evidence Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 2179)

A. Yes, it does.

Q. Are any of those articles peer review articles?

A. Some of them are.

Q. You explain what peer review means?

A. If a scientist or a group of scientists does some research in the
laboratory and they want to publish that, you write up what you did,
the results you got, how you got them and send that off to a
scientific journal.

The journal then sends that out to two or three, usually other
scientists, who are also knowledgeable in the same area that the paper
is written in.

And those scientists read the paper, make comments and then send it
back to the journal, and the journal is basically asking, should the
paper be accepted; should the paper be rejected, or should the paper
have more work done to it and then re-submitted.

Q. So some of your articles that you've published have gone through
that process?

A. Yes.

Q. Have you, yourself ever been a peer reviewer of other people's
articles?

A. Yes. I review, maybe two articles a year.

Q. The articles that you've written and articles that you review, are
they all involved with the DNA?

A. The ones I would be peer reviewing, currently would be involved
with DNA as it's applied to DNA testing, as it's applied to evidence.

Q. And when did you join Cellmark?

A. In January of 1988.

Q. And when you first joined, what was your position?

A. I was the Manager of Research and Development.

Q. And what was your next position at Cellmark?

A. Couple -- couple years later, I became the Deputy Director, that is
the Assistant to the Laboratory Director; and some years after that I
became the Laboratory Director.

Q. That's your current position?

A. Yes.

Q. And can you tell me, generally speaking, what your duties are as a
Laboratory Director at Cellmark?

A. I have overall scientific responsibility for the work that's done
at Cellmark. I supervise both paternity and forensic, both testing of
evidence work. There are two supervisors who work underneath me to
help me do that.

And I oversee every research and validation work that's done at
Cellmark and I testify when necessary.

Q. And can you tell us about how many cases a year are handled by
Cellmark?

A. Cellmark handles about a thousand.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Cellmark handles about a thousand or so paternity cases
per year and about 500 forensic cases per year.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) And are the cases that are handled by Cellmark,
are they done pursuant to any -- especially the forensic cases, let's
take, are they done pursuant to any national guidelines of any sort?

A. Yes, they are.

Q. What are those guidelines?

A. The guidelines are referred to as the TWGDAM guidelines. It's T-W
-- all capitals T-W-G-D-A-M, which stands for the Technical Working
Group on DNA Analysis Methods. It's a group that was formed by the
FBI, specifically to write guidelines for testing evidence samples
using DNA analysis.

Q. And Cellmark follows those guidelines, do they?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. Do the guidelines require, among other things, proficiency testing
done by the laboratory?

A. Yes, they do.

Q. And what is proficiency testing?

A. Proficiency testing is having some samples come into the laboratory
where someone else knows what the answer should be. So the laboratory
is receiving the samples. We generally know that these are proficiency
test samples, but we don't know what the answer is, so we do the
analysis and report that analysis back to the submitting agency.

Many other labs will do the same proficiency test and then all these
results are compared.

Q. And so Cellmark has taken these proficiency tests in the past?

A. Yes.

Q. Have there ever been any problems with any proficiency tests?

A. Yes.

Q. What problems have there been?

A. In 1988, we did a large proficiency test sample set and got one
incorrect match. And the same thing occurred in 1989. We also did a
similar large set and got one incorrect match.

Q. Did Cellmark take any action as a consequence of these two
incorrect matches?

A. We made some changes in our protocols to address the problems that
we thought caused or the -- to address the proto -- protocol steps
that we thought had caused these problems.

Q. And since 18 -- 1989, has Cellmark taken any further proficiency
tests?

A. Yes. All of our analysts take two per year.

Q. So a number of proficiency tests have been taken by different
analysts since 1989?

A. Yes.

Q. Have you ever experienced any problems on any proficiency tests
since 1989?

A. No, we have not.

Q. In addition, to the TWGDAM, am I saying that right?

A. Yes.

Q. In addition to the TWGDAM guidelines concerning proficiency tests,
are there other guidelines that laboratories must follow if they
choose to follow the TWGDAM guidelines?

A. No. Analysis of evidence -- the TWGDAM guidelines are pretty much
the nationally accepted set of guidelines.

Q. And Cellmark follows those guidelines?

A. We do.

Q. Now, could I ask, if you're a member of any -- if you're a member
of any professional organizations or societies?

A. I am.

Q. Can you just list those for us?

A. I'm a member of the American Association of Blood Banks, the
connection there is that they have a paternity testing set of
guidelines and we do paternity testing. I'm a member of the American
Association of Human Genetics and the American Academy of Forensic
Science.

Q. Can you tell us basically what the function of the American Society
of Human Genetics is?

A. Basically, it's a large group of scientists who have interests,
scientific interests in a broad area of human genetics.

Q. The American Society of Forensic -- American Academy of Forensic
Science, what does -- is that involved with?

A. It's also a group of scientists that have scientific interest in
the application of scientific techniques to the analysis of evidence.

Q. And can you just tell us generally what forensic science means?

A. Basically, the application of science to answering questions
regarding some type of forensic evidence.

Q. Now, as part of your job as Cellmark Lab Director, do you testify
in court as part of that job?

A. I do.

Q. And how often have you testified in court?

A. I don't keep an exact record, but I testify about 12 times a year.
I probably testified over 100 times.

Q. And in all of those times that you've testified, have you been
qualified as an expert witness?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. And in regard to what subject matter?

A. With regard to DNA analysis as it applies to Forensic Science.

Q. And how many different states have you been qualified as such an
expert?

A. Probably about 20.

Q. And have you been qualified before in the State of California?

A. Yes.

Q. And have you testified before in the State of California?

A. Many times.

Q. Now, we've talked already a little bit this afternoon about DNA.
Perhaps you could help us out by telling us exactly what DNA is?

A. DNA is found in the nucleus of all of our cells. It's found in
basically all organisms, and the DNA molecule contains all of the
information that allows our body to function.

One half of that information is inherited from your mother, the other
half of that information is inherited from your father. And the
combination of that information carries the code that tells your body
how to develop and what it will look like and basically most
everything, unless you want to talk about the behavior; and that's
sort of up for grabs.

Q. When was DNA first discovered?

A. It was first discovered in the early, late 1800s or early 1900s.
And I don't really know the exact date. The structure, as we know it
today, the chemical structure was discovered in 1953.

Q. Since the discovery of the structure of DNA, has that been the
subject of scientific investigation?

A. Yes, an enormous amount.

Q. There have been great advances, have there, in the field of DNA
since that discovery?

A. Since 1953, yes, there have been many advances. We know a huge
amount now that we didn't know -- well, I didn't know anything in 1953
about DNA, that is.

Q. Okay. Why don't we put up the first chart.

(Chart displayed entitled, "Where Is DNA Found?")

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Perhaps, Dr. Cotton, you can explain to us what
that chart sets forth.

MR. BLASIER: Could we have the chart number?

MR. LAMBERT: I'm sorry, it's 273.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "Where is DNA
Found?" was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 273.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Can you please explain what this chart sets forth?

A. On the left, we'll start on the left with the cell. This one sort
of looks like an egg, but that's fine.

All cells, except red blood cells, have a nucleus. Red blood cells
lose their nucleus in maturing to be a functional red blood cell. And
when you get DNA from the blood, you're getting it from another cell
type which does have a nucleus.

The DNA is found in the nucleus, packaged up into 46 chromosomes. 23
of those, you -- each of us inherit from our mother and 23 of those
each of us inherit from our father.

So the second panel just shows a lot of chromosomes sitting in this
nucleus that's been enlarged. And the next panel over -- shows what
the structure, sort of a cartoon structure of what a chromosome would
look like if you blew a single one up in a microscope, and were able
to see that. And you can certainly do that. In fact, many people are
very expert at that.

In that chromosome, the DNA molecule wound up. And so in this chart,
the DNA is depicted here as blue and it's shown -- sort of shown to
look like a slinky. That's maybe -- that's another sort of cartoon
version. But there's some accuracy to that. If you further unwind that
slinky, what you wind up with is have -- have a very long thread of
DNA.

That's what's shown in that final panel that the DNA has a helical
structure as if you took a ladder that was not made of metal and just
twisted it around, or if you took a ribbon and made some twists in
that ribbon, you would end up which double helical structure.

Q. Perhaps we could have the next chart then, please. I think this one
is going to be the new number. So it would be?

THE CLERK: 2180.

(The instrument herein referred to as chart with close-up of
chromosome with base pair sequences was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2180.)

(Exhibit No. 2180 was displayed.)

Q. You can tell us what that chart is?

A. This is just a really short section of a DNA molecule
diagrammatically, but it's pretty accurate, and there's a couple of
things that are relevant in this diagram.

One is that the DNA strand is made up of only four components and they
are Adenine, Thymine, Guanine and Cytosine and every scientist in the
entire world, refers to these as ATG and C, by the first letter of
their chemical name.

And these four components, if you just looked along the whole strand,
the order of these components actually makes a code, and that's what
carries the information. So instead of having a 26 letter alphabet,
DNA has a four letter alphabet.

The components are in the molecule in pairs. So at the very top you
see a green "A" and a gold "T." And the next one down you see red "C"
and a blue "G." Those -- And then you see another AT.

A and T are always paired together, G and C are always paired
together. And that feature of the molecule allows you to do something
in the lab that's necessary for DNA testing, which is you can pull the
two strands of this helix apart, as you would unzip a zipper and put
them back together. But they only go back together when the AT and GC
pairs are all properly lined up.

So it's like if you think of a zipper that has different shape teeth
that sort of fit together like a lock and key, with an A and a T
forming a lock and key, and a G and a C. But the shapes are slightly
different for the AT pair, than they are for the GC pair.

When you pull these strands apart and you can put them back together
and that feature of DNA allows DNA testing to be possible.

There's only one other feature that's really important in terms of
thinking about DNA testing as it's applied to forensic or paternity,
and that is you can think about -- you could measure -- there are
various scientific ways to measure the lengths of DNA. But when people
do this, they don't talk about a piece of DNA being so many
millimeters or so many inches long. They talk about how many base
pairs it is.

An AT pair or a GC pair is called a base pair. It's almost impossible
to talk about DNA without interjecting that scientific terminology.

So the piece that we're looking at on the chart has six base pairs
altogether and you can talk about length -- the length of a piece of
DNA and you always talk about it in terms of how many base pairs long
it is.

Q. And how many base pairs would a person of this DNA -- would a
person normally have?

A. In humans, there are about 6 billion base pairs of information that
makeup the whole human DNA, that exists in all of the chromosomes.

Q. And all of those base pairs are composed of just these 34 items?

A. There either AT pairs or GC pairs.

Q. They're always paired together in that sequence?

A. In that fashion, yes.

Q. Let me ask you this: Do we have, all of us have the same DNA?

A. No.

Q. What kind of differences between people are there in this DNA?

A. There are actually many more similarities than there are
differences. At least 99 percent of DNA in humans is the same. We all
have five fingers on our hand. We all have the same body parts. Our
bodies all function similarly. So the great majority of DNA in humans
is going to be the same between myself and everyone else in this
courtroom.

However, a small fraction of the DNA is different and that's
intuitively obvious because you can look around and recognize pretty
quickly that people don't look alike unless they're related. And even
if they're related, they don't look identical.

With the exception of identical twins. Identical twins look identical
because, in fact, they have identical DNA.

Q. So other than identical twins, do any other two people have
identical DNA?

A. No.

Q. And this portion of the DNA that's different from person to person,
is there a way to determine the differences by looking at that DNA?

A. Looking at it how?

Q. Well, let's take a look at the next two charts and maybe that will
help you. Might bring them both back, Steve.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

MR. LAMBERT: I think both of those -- these will need a few numbers.

(Display chart entitled "DNA Lengths Differences.)

MR. LAMBERT: Which will be what?

THE CLERK: 2181.

MR. LAMBERT: 2181.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "DNA Length
Differences," was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
2181.)

Q. Dr. Cotton, can you describe for us what this board depicts?

A. Yes. There's two common ways, two common types of differences in
DNA that are used in both paternity testing and forensic testing. And
this first board shows one of them. And this is the idea that a
particular section of DNA is different. People will be different
lengths.

Can I --

Q. There's a pointer there.

A. Yeah. Can I come down and -- just for these next two?

Q. Sure.

(Witness approaches exhibit.)

A. This is the same little sequence that we saw on the diagram that
you had up just a few minutes ago. And it's got four base pairs here,
a GC, an AT another GC, another AT. And what the diagram shows is that
you've got four of those right here. You've got four of those sections
all stuck together. So this four base pair section is repeated four
times.

Sort of like box cars on a train. This train has four box cars. This
chromosome over here -- let's say that, suppose this is my DNA and
this is one of my chromosomes. And I got this one. I got this
chromosome from my mother. This is the corresponding chromosome, let's
say, that I got from my father. But here, there are only two sections,
two box cars stuck together of this four base pair section. Two pieces
stuck end to end.

Now, let's go on and look at another person for that same chromosome
pair, for that same genetic location. Someone else might have their
sections repeated end to end. And say they got that chromosome from
their mother and on the other chromosome they inherited from their
father. There were five of that four base pair section stuck end to
end.

So here I've got altogether, eight base pairs. Here I've got 16. Here
I've got 12, and here I've got 20.

If I had a way to go in to the DNA and cut these sections out that had
these repeats, I could see that my DNA was different from this other
person.

That kind of difference in DNA is one of the differences that --
current methods for DNA testing looks at.

Q. And this, the difference that you're describing is the difference
in length of these repeating sequences?

A. That's right. So this is a length difference or a length. The
scientific term is a length polymorphism. Polymorphism means several
forms. So this is an example of a length difference from one person to
the next.

Q. So, would you say that the person one and person two are
polymorphic in this example? This one up here?

A. I would say that the genetic location that has this DNA added is
polymorphic.

Q. Could we look at the next one, please?

Did -- this one does have an existing number. It's number 276.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "Diagram of
Autorad," was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
276.)

Q. On this one?

A. On this one we've only shown what would be only one person. You get
two copies of every chromosome, so one copy from mother, one from
father. But this serves to show the idea.

Here, if we look along one side, we have a C, a T, a G and an A. If we
go to the other DNA strand, we have a C, just like over here, but here
where we had a T on the first one, we have a C on the second one.

So we have a difference in the sequence of the basis or the base pairs
as you go down the molecule at this particular location.

And someone else might have the same C or the same T, or they might
have a G there. And I'm just reading down one side to be consistent.
I'm just picking this side, the left side, to my left side to read
down.

So this is an example of a sequence difference. Where at a particular
location, the sequence of the basis isn't necessarily the same in
every person. And that is the other kind of difference that DNA
testing in paternity and forensic uses -- makes or uses to distinguish
one person from the next.

Q. So Dr. Cotton, taking these two DNA differences that you pointed
out to us into account, have tests been developed to determine whether
a person's DNA is different from another person's DNA by looking at
these kind of differences?

A. Yes.

Q. And what are those tests called?

A. The tests that look at -- well, the two kind of tests are referred
to as RFLP or PCR.

Q. Okay. Why don't we take them one at a time. What's the RFLP test?
Maybe you could first tell us what RFLP means.

A. RFLP stands for Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism. And the
two operative words here are the last two. It is a -- the test looks
at length differences.

Q. Looks at length differences like you explained in that first chart
on the board there?

A. Exactly.

Q. And could you just generally describe how this RFLP, and if you
don't mind, I'll use the shortened version of that how the RFLP test
works?

A. For either kind of test, it doesn't matter if it's RFLP or the
other type, PCR. The first thing that happens is that you have a piece
of evidence that has some biological tissue or fluid on it that has
cells.

The first thing that you're going to do is purify the DNA away from
both the piece of evidence itself, like a piece of cotton or a stain
on a clothing or whatever it happens to be.

And you also want to purify the DNA away from the other parts of the
cells that you're not interested in looking at. You're really only
interested in looking at the DNA.

Q. So your first step is you purify the DNA and this is part of the
RFLP process?

A. Yes.

Q. What do you do with it after that?

A. After that, you go through a procedure that allows you to cut out
these sections that we know vary in length from one person to the
next.

Q. Can we have the next chart please, Steve?

And I think this is going to need a new number as well.

THE CLERK: 2182.

MR. LAMBERT: No. I'm told it has a number. What this is a portion of
existing 274. It's the last portion of existing 274.

Q. And this chart diagram of Autorad, perhaps you can explain to us
what this chart depicts and also tell us what Autorad is?

A. In this -- in doing this RFLP procedure you're going to purify the
DNA, then you're going to go through this second step. It allows you
to cut out these fragments that are different in length and then
you're going to go to another step that allows you to separate the
fragment, based on how long they are.

And then you go through yet one more step to be able to see your
results.

The final results are visualized on a piece of X-ray film. You haven't
done an X-ray, keep in mind, but it is that same type of film that's
used and you see dark lines on this X-ray film.

And the chart that's on the easel is a very simplified diagram of
what's shown on this X-ray film, which is called an Autorad.

Q. And can you tell us, using this as an example, what an Autorad can
show you about these length differences?

A. Yes we can.

Q. Yes. You can go.

A. Can I?

Q. Sure.

A. Enhance this just a little bit.

Q. Yes, you can.

(Witness draws on exhibit.)

A. What I want to do, to orient you, there's a, what's called a top
and a bottom to this.

There's a starting point for your DNA, and there's going to -- just
give us some starting point across the top here, which is actually a
place where your sample goes in and the DNA in this procedure moves
this way. This is the bottom. This is the top. These fragments at the
bottom or anything that you see at the bottom, is shorter. And
anything that you see at the top is longer.

For each sample, generally you'll see two dark lines that are called
bands, B-A-N-D-S. It's just like -- could be "mark" -- I don't know
where the term "band" came from, but it's been around a long time.

The piece of DNA that's resulted in this band is physically shorter in
length and different from this piece.

So let's suppose that I have three samples here; one, two, and three.
And these are the appearance of the bands that I get from these three
samples.

When this result is completed, you can look at these. Sample one and
sample two have appearances that look the same, that is, the bands are
in the same relative position.

So it's possible that sample one and sample two came from the same
person. Sample three has two bands also. Again, each time, you know,
one from mother; one from father. Sample three has two bands also.
They are in different positions than the bands in sample one and
sample two.

So the person with whom the DNA came in sample three cannot be the
same person as one and two.

What you're looking at here is the amount of information you would
get, looking at one genetic location and that's the starting point.
But generally, you would go on and look at two, three, four, five, and
possibly more, each providing this kind of information. So you would
end up with a group of data, a set of data from several genetic
locations. And each time you're asking the same question: Can -- are
one and two the same or are they different?

We already know this is different. So that answer's one question right
there.

Two and three --

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, I object to the narrative at this point.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Sample two and sample three must be from different
people.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, when you actually use this system in case
work, do you make the comparison just visually?

A. No. In case work, you -- well, you do make the comparison visually
when you see it the first time. You have to look at it. And it's
relatively easy to make this comparison visually. You don't need any
further assistance.

After you've made the comparison visually, there is a computer
assisted imaging device that allows you to make some more precise
measurements about the proximate size of the length of DNA that's
created each of these bands, and then you compare those in a numerical
fashion and come to a final conclusion.

Q. This RFLP method that you just described for us, is that one of the
tests that you use at Cellmark?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that test also used in any other fields besides forensic fields?

A. Yes. It's used in -- it's used in a lot of research applications.
It's used in some medical diagnostic applications. This very same test
is used to monitor bone marrow transplants. So it's not just a
forensic application. There are a lot of other applications for this
procedure.

Q. And so is this a commonly used procedure among DNA scientists?

A. Very common.

Q. Could we see the next chart, please?

(Mr. Foster displays chart)

MR. LAMBERT: This is number 275.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "PCR Analysis,"
was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 275.)

Q. Now, this chart, which is teetering up there, is this chart
designed to explain the PCR test; is that right, Dr. Cotton?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you just take us briefly through the steps in the PCR test?

A. The big difference in a PCR test is that you don't have as much DNA
to start out with. And the only way you can analyze the small amount
of DNA that you have, is to make some more of it. Although you're not
making more of everything, you're just making more of the particular
section that you're interested in looking at.

So if you look at the top panel here, it shows, like, a white cloth
with a small stain on it.

And then the blow-up there in pink is trying to illustrate that you're
getting DNA from that stain. You're purifying, the same methods that
you used to purify the DNA to RFLP are used for PCR and some
additional different ones as well.

If you look at the pink circle there with the DNA in it, you'll see
that most of it is very dark gray. But there's a short section that's
blue.

And let's say that this is the section that we want, that we're
interested in looking at. There's something about this blue section
that's going to show differences from one person to the next, and we
don't have enough of it to look at. But when we'd like to make more
and that's what this procedure allows you to do.

And that is, you add the DNA into a tube and you add an additional
component that allows you to copy that short blue section.

So step two just shows that you've taken all these components and what
you're doing is you're putting them in a machine that cycles through a
set of hot and cold -- It's not real cold, but warmer and cooler
temperatures that allow this chemical reaction to go forward and make
many copies.

And so on the -- on the lower panel here, in the test tube, now the
pink circle is trying to illustrate that now I have a whole lot of
that blue section that I wanted to make a copy of. And now, because
I've been able to make so many copies, it's like xeroxing.

If you want to have 20 copies of one page, you just go in and push
"20" on your machine. Well, it's -- that's where the analogy ends. But
it's like you can make many, many copies of one section, one page of
the DNA, if you want to sort of say it that way.

And now you have enough to actually do an analysis and then the small
little panel at bottom here, where it says step three, that analysis
might look at a sequence polymorphism, a sequence difference. That's
one kind of analysis that is commonly done.

And the other kind of analysis that's commonly done where it says:
AMP, FLP is actually -- it just looks at a length difference in the
same manner that the RFLP test looks at a length difference, but you
just -- it happens that you're looking at shorter smaller pieces, but
the idea is the same.

Q. So taking the later point first in the PCR context, is there a
particular test that's commonly used to a look at fragment length
differences?

A. Yes.

Q. What that test called?

A. It's called D1S80. That's actually the name of the genetic location
that the test looks at.

Q. That test looks at one particular location, and what does it look
at, at that location?

A. It looks at length differences in the DNA at that location.

Q. Perhaps you can get the pad of paper out for us now.

Just put it on top of that.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) What I'd like you to do now, Dr. Cotton, is
explain another kind of test that is used in connection with the PCR
process, kinds of tests that look at sequence differences?

A. And what exactly --

Q. Well, I'd like you to explain to us what the tests are that are
commonly used and what is it that they look at.

A. Okay.

Let me start here just for a minute.

There are two commonly used tests that look at sequence differences.
And they are called DQA Alpha, and polymarker.

Let me start with the polymarker because it's a little easier. First
of all -- yeah. Can you hang onto that?

MR. FOSTER: You want me to take the board down?

THE WITNESS: It's abbreviated PM, standing for polymarker. This test
looks at five different genetic locations, or LOSI. Five different
locations.

Each of those locations has a name. But what I want to show you is
that the results you get out are as follows:

There's two, two variations that a person could have. You could have a
B at one location or an A" That is, you could inherit from one parent
an A, and you could inherit from your other parent -- from your
father, mother and father, in which case, the type that you would be
would be AA. If you had inherited an A from one parent and a B from
the other parent, you would be an AB. And if you inherit a B from both
parents, you would be a BB.

And everyone is going to be one of these three types. Each of these
variations is called an allele. You may have been familiar with ABO
blood groups where the alleles are A, B, and O. Here the alleles are A
and B.

For the polymarker tests, there are three locations that have this
much variation where the types are called A and B and you can be an AA
or an AB or BB. In this polymarker test, there are two genetic
locations that the test looks at where you can be an A or a B or a C.
And that ends up to give you the following types.

So that's all the possible combinations of an A, a B or a C. Each time
inheriting one from one parent and one from the next.

(Witness indicates to portion just written on hand-written diagram.)

Q. And everyone is going to be one of these six possibilities.

Q. So this polymarker test, tests at five separate locations
simultaneously?

A. Simultaneously, well, actually it's six because there's one
location I didn't talk about and that's the DQ Alpha location.

Q. Okay. Maybe you could explain that, too.

MR. BLASIER: Could we have a number to that?

MR. LAMBERT: The one you just did, yeah, we'll put a number on it.
That will be 2182, I believe.

THE CLERK: (Nods in the affirmative.)

THE COURT REPORTER: 2182?

MR. LAMBERT: Yes.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Hand Drawn Diagram by Dr.
Cotton of DQ Alpha combinations was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2182.)

Q. For DQ Alpha, there are a few more alleles than A, B and C and
these have number designations.

So there's a 1.1, a 1.2, a 1.3 -- 1.3, a 2, a 3 and a 4. And if I
wrote down all the combinations, if I remember correctly, it gives you
21 possible combinations and every one will be one of those 21
possible combinations of these six things.

Q. And is this, once again, is an example of where you'll get one of
those alleles from your father and one from your mother.

A. Yes.

Q. So everyone will have two, although it could be that you have the
same from each parent?

A. Yes. You might get a 1.1 from one parent and a 1.1 from another
parent. Or you might get a 4 from each of your parents and be a 4, 4.
Or you might get a 1.1 from one parent and a 4 from the other, in
which case you'd be a 1.1, 4.

Q. And again, this test, like the polymarker test, is testing for
sequence differences at this particular location?

A. Yes. Each one of these that have a number designation in the DNA is
different because there's a difference in the sequence of the base
pairs at that DQ Alpha location.

Q. Thank you. And we'll give this the next number which is --

MR. LAMBERT: 2183.

THE CLERK: Counsel will you write, than, on this chart, 2182 so we
don't get --

MR. LAMBERT: Sure.

MR. BLASIER: This is 2183.

THE COURT: That's 2183.

MR. BLASIER: It's one before.

THE CLERK: Okay.

THE COURT: The other one is 2182.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

(The instrument herein referred to as hand drawn diagram by Dr. Cotton
displaying Numerical Allele Combinations was marked for identification
as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2183.)

THE COURT: Okay. Let's take a ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen.
Don't talk about the case; don't form or express any opinions.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were resumed in open court in the presence
of the jury:)

Q. Before the break, Dr. Cotton, you had explained the PCR system of
testing DNA. Is that a system that Cellmark uses in it's laboratory?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that system used in laboratories, other than forensic
laboratories, as well?

A. The reaction, the PCR reaction is used almost anywhere anybody's
doing biology these days.

The specific test is used mainly in forensic laboratories and may have
some application to other laboratories that are not doing forensic.

Q. But the PCR process itself, that's very commonly used by DNA
scientists?

A. PCR process itself is very common.

Q. And in your laboratory, you use both RFLP test and the PCR test, as
I understand it?

A. That's right.

Q. Why do you choose one or the other?

A. Essentially it allows you to work on a lot of different kinds of
evidence. Because if you have a lot of DNA and the DNA is in good
condition, you can do an RFLP test and that gives you the most amount
possible. The most possible information that you can get. If you don't
have very much DNA, or it's not in very good condition, then you would
go to a PCR test and you can still get some information from that
test.

Q. So are there different amounts of information that you can get from
these different kind of tests?

A. Yes.

Q. Could you sort of explain to us what the range of the amounts of
information are that are available to you using these tests?

A. Yes. Let's -- in order to do that, and this is an -- this is an
important concept, let me go back to the example I gave you where
there's two alleles, an A and a B. And anyone, any person will be one
of three types, an AA, a BB or an -- AA, an AB or a BB.

That system by itself isn't, doesn't have a lot of information because
it's not going to be too unusual that two different people would both
be an AA. So that system, by itself, allows you to exclude somebody if
you have a piece of evidence that an AB, and you have a known
individual that's an AA. The known can't be the contributor -- to the
piece of evidence. But if you have a piece of evidence that's an AA
and a known person that's an AA, that's going to happen fairly often
just by chance; not necessarily because the person was the person who
put the biological specimen on the piece of evidence.

The polymarker test altogether uses five systems like that. And so it
provides a fair amount of information, particularly if you say, well,
if I have two alleles, I can have three possible combinations.

And then I showed you, if you have three alleles, you can have six
possible combinations. So that would be even a little more
information.

But you could still accidentally, by chance have the same type as a
piece of evidence.

For the DQ Alpha you have six alleles, 21 possible combinations,
that's a little bit more information. So the chances of a person,
person A accidentally having the same type as the DNA from a piece of
evidence isn't so great.

RFLP, on the other hand, for each genetic location that you use, has
at least 20 alleles. And for technical reasons that we haven't tried
to explain, there may be actually many more than that.

So information that comes from an RFLP test is very highly
discriminating and four genetic locations on an RFLP test or five or
more, provide enormous amounts of information and have a very great
ability to distinguish one person from the next.

So right now, as the technology stands, the most information possible
is obtained from an RFLP test.

If you can't do an RFLP test and you do a PCR test, you are not
getting the same amount of information. But it's still -- it's
interesting to me, but it's still useful. What I mean to say, in that
it allows you to exclude someone as being a contributor and then it
allows to you include one as being a possible contributor. And then
you can put a frequency to that to say, well, how often might you see
this combination of genetic types. And if that number is one in 20,
then you would see that combination relatively often.

If that number is one in a million, you wouldn't see that number very
often.

Q. And using the PCR test as an example, if you are able to test at
several different of these genetic markers that you've talked about,
does that increase the information that the test gives you?

A. It does. And that's really a good generic statement. The more
genetic --

MR. BLASIER: I'm going to object to the narrative response.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: The more genetic locations that you look at, the more
information you have.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, before we get into the actual work that you
did in this case, I'd like to ask you about some -- a word that we've
heard used in this trial so far, and that has to do with degradation.
What does degradation mean in the context of DNA?

A. In the context of DNA, it means that the DNA molecule is being
broken down. Let's say that the DNA molecule is equivalent to a very
long piece of thread. If I took a spool and unwound it, that would be
one DNA molecule from one chromosome.

If I took a pair of scissors then -- and cut that thread in 20
different places. That might be the -- equivalent to that DNA being
slightly degraded, that is it is randomly broken in 20 different
locations. It's no longer all in one piece.

If you think of degradation, you can think of degradation as a one
continuum; from no degradation to DNA being completely in tact, to
extensive degradation, where all you have are AT pairs and AT pairs
and CG pairs; and anything in between.

So if I took that same thread and I cut it into a thousand, cut it at
a thousand spots, it's going to be in a lot smaller pieces and that
would be more degraded than if I cut it in 20 places.

Q. In doing forensic DNA work, is degradation something that you see
very often?

A. It's something that you see all the time.

Q. Why is that, Dr. Cotton?

A. If you take some fresh blood from -- if I had somebody draw my
blood and we extracted the DNA from it right then, we would get DNA
that's in very good condition, and might have been broken up a little
bit just in the process of handling it, but it would be it would be
really in good shape.

If you have blood or any other human cells left at a crime scene, that
those cells are not in the body any longer and they are now subjected
to whatever environment is at that crime scene, it might be sunlight.
It might be heat. It might be -- there are a lot of different kinds of
evidence.

It might be that some evidence is taken from someone who is deceased.
So all of the things that are affecting those cells will eventually
affect the DNA and it will gradually degrade. And depending on where
it is and what conditions it's under, it may degrade more, or it may
degrade less.

Q. And are you, as a general proposition, able to test this degraded
DNA to determine the information that you've described in the RFLP and
PCR test?

A. Yes.

Q. Does there ever come a point in time when the DNA is so degraded
that you can no longer test it?

A. Yes.

Q. And when that happens, Dr. Cotton, does the degradation change the
DNA type from one type into another type?

A. No, it --

Q. I'm sorry. Please.

A. It's okay. If it's too degraded to test, you simply don't get an
answer.

Q. And does DNA type ever change from one type into another type?

A. If --

Q. Through degradation?

A. No.

Q. And can degradation change DNA so that one person's DNA type could
be mistaken for another person's DNA type?

A. The answer to that is no. I can think of an affect where you might
lose some information by degradation, but it won't -- it won't change
somebody's type to be something other than what it started to be. So
you're -- you either have all the information that's there, you can
lose some of it or you will lose all of it.

Q. Okay. Now, let's talk about this test. Did you, at Cellmark -- did
Cellmark receive evidence items to be tested in this case?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you recall when you first received those?

A. I need to --

Q. Take a look at your -- look at your records?

A. -- Yeah, use the case records.

(Witness reviews documents.)

A. The initial items that we received were received on June 24, 1994.

Q. And who did you receive those initial items from?

A. From Colin Yamauchi.

Q. And from whom is he employed?

A. LAPD Scientific Investigation Division.

Q. And during the course of your involvement with this case, did you
receive subsequent items of evidence from the Scientific Investigation
Division?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you receive from them, any other source?

A. Yes. We received, also, some tubes that had DNA already extracted.
So the tubes contained DNA and the original extractions had been done
at the California Department of Justice Lab in Berkeley.

Q. And is that another DNA laboratory?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. On this -- the initial time, when you got these evidence items that
Mr. Yamauchi sent you, when you first processed those items, was
anyone at your laboratory other than Cellmark people?

A. Well, when we first opened the items and logged -- Well, actually
for the very first two items, no, there wasn't.

Q. And how about the for the rest of the items?

A. For some of the subsequent items, we had Henry Lee and Edward
Blake, Dr. Blake and Dr. Lee present in the lab to watch the items
initially be put into tubes from which they would be processed.

Q. And Dr. Lee and Dr. Blake were there as representatives of Mr.
Simpson?

A. That's correct.

Q. And Dr. Blake, is he, himself, a DNA scientist?

A. Yes, he is.

Q. Does he run a laboratory that does DNA testing?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes, he does.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Ultimately, do you have a record as to how many
different evidence items were tested by Cellmark laboratories in this
case?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you tell me how many there were?

A. All together, we tested 23 items.

Q. And were all those items tested by the one test or the other or did
you use both of the tests described?

A. Some items were tested, both RFLP and PCR. And some items were just
tested with PCR.

MR. LAMBERT: Why don't we bring out the next board, please.

(Mr. Foster complies. Displays board entitled "Results of DNA Analysis
Bundy Crime Scene." )

MR. LAMBERT: This is 291, Your Honor.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "Results of DNA
Analysis - Bundy Crime Scene" was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 291.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Before we get to this board, Dr. Cotton, I'd like
to ask you a question about frequencies. You mentioned before there
was a way to determine the frequency of some particular DNA type.
Could you explain that to us please?

A. Yes. What you're doing is saying I have a group of genetic
characteristics and I want to know how often they occur in the
population. And traditionally, that question has been asked separately
for different racial or ethnic groups.

So you might say, how often does this group of characteristics occur
in Caucasians, how often does it occur in African persons, how often
does it occur in Hispanics or Asians or whatever group you were
interested in.

The purpose of doing that is just what I mentioned earlier. That is,
if a genetic characteristics or a group of characteristics is common,
that doesn't tell you a lot. You can exclude somebody if they don't
share the characteristics of a piece of evidence. But if you include
them, and that -- and half the population has that characteristics, it
doesn't tell you very much.

On the other hand, if you calculate a frequency and say I have -- I
have a set of genetic characteristics here and I'm going to ask the
question, how often do they individually, each individually occur? And
then if I want to say how often would they occur as a group, I can
multiply how often each one occurs individually together. And that
will tell me how often they occur as a group.

And if that frequency is rare, then that tells you a lot more about
whether that individual, how likely it is that that individual was a
contributor, as opposed to accidentally having the same type by
chance.

Q. And as part of Cellmark's regular work, do you routinely calculate
these frequencies?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. Do you include them in your reports, on your test result?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. Did you do so in this case?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. So for each of the items that you tested were you -- where you got
a reportable result, you included a frequency calculation?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. That's a calculation that is routinely done by other DNA
laboratories; isn't it -- as well; isn't it, Doctor?

A. Yes.

Q. Now let's take a look at this board itself. I'd like to focus your
attention first, on item 56, which is a shoe print item. Did you do a
test on that item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what test did you do?

A. We did a DQ Alpha and a polymarker test.

Q. And those are the PCR tests that you mentioned?

A. They are both PCR tests.

Q. And what results did you get on -- on that test?

A. The DQ Alpha result showed us a type of a 1.1 but the control that
is included on this test, that basically is sort of a way to say I
have enough DNA to confidently call this result, did not show-up.

So the -- if you look on the board in parentheses it says "zero."
That's supposed to be -- anyway there's no C dot. That means there's
no control dot. So we did not regard that as an interpretable result
and the DQ Alpha result was then inconclusive.

We did get a polymarker match, that is the polymarker type from that
piece of evidence was the same as Nicole Brown's polymarker type.

Q. And looking up at the top of the board where we have the names
Orenthal Simpson, Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman and opposite each
one of these those, would you describe what those letters mean at the
top for the DQ Alpha entry?

A. Yes. The DQ Alpha entry shows what the type was from these three
known individuals.

Mr. Simpson has a 1.1, 1.2 DQ Alpha type; Nicole Brown has a 1.1, 1.1
DQ Alpha type; and Ronald Goldman has a 1.3, 4, DQ Alpha type.

Q. Than, though we don't have it on the board, did you also determine
the five polymarker types for each of those three persons?

A. We did.

Q. And as to number 56, you obtained a polymarker match at all five of
those types for Nicole Brown?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. So that would tell you then that Nicole Brown is a possible source
of that item 56; is that right?

A. Yes, it would.

Q. And were you able to exclude Mr. Simpson and Mr. Goldman as
possible sources?

A. Yes. They are excluded.

Q. So the only possible source upon those three people is Nicole
Brown?

A. Among those three people, she's the only one that's not excluded.

Q. And were you able to calculate a frequency for that one item?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. Can you please write that frequency on the board for us in the
space provided there?

JUROR: We can't see behind here. Can you move it toward the judge, or
just move it over?

Yeah. Thank you.

(Counsel adjusts Exhibit board.)

THE COURT: All the jurors see it?

JURORS: (Nod in the affirmative.)

THE COURT: Okay. Go ahead.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Maybe black is better.

(Indicating to marker.)

(Witness marks on board.)

Q. So for this one evidence item, you were able to determine the
frequency as 1 in 48 to 1 in 110. Perhaps you could explain what those
numbers mean to us?

A. For each item, we calculated a frequency for Caucasians, for
African persons and for Hispanics, and they give different numbers.

What I wrote on the board was the smallest of those numbers, was 1 in
48. And the largest of those, the largest of those numbers was 1 in
110.

Q. And taking the one in four, what does that number tell us, 1 in 48?

A. That means that we are estimating. And every time you do this, this
is an estimate. Using a different reference sample, another estimate
might be slightly different. It means that the combination of
polymarker types that were common to those, from the shoe print and
Nicole Brown occurs in about 1 in 48, whatever racial group that was.
I'd have to look at the report. As a low range, just to give you a
range or as -- as little as 1 in 110.

Q. Okay. And in this instance you're frequency was calculated just
based on the polymarker test?

A. Yes. Because the DQ Alpha test did not have a C dot. That was one
clue. So we didn't include that in the frequency calculation.

Q. Okay. Let's now go up to the top of the chart item 47, which is the
first of the drops by the Bundy trail. And could you tell me what your
first -- what test you ran on that particular item?

A. We ran, again, the DQ Alpha test and the polymarker test.

Q. And what results did you get?

A. We got a DQ Alpha type 1.1, 1.2 and a polymarker type that was the
same as Mr. Simpson's.

Q. And the DQ Alpha type 1.1, 1.2 is that the same as Mr. Simpson?

A. It's also the same as Mr. Simpson's.

Q. Would Mr. Simpson be a possible source of that particular evidence
item?

A. Yes.

Q. And would either of Nicole Brown Simpson or Ronald Goldman be a
possible source of that item?

A. No. They are both excluded.

Q. Okay. So once again, the only possible source among those three
people for that evidence item is Mr. Simpson; is that correct?

A. For that item of these three people we have the only one that could
be a contributor.

Q. Did you do a frequency allocation for that evidence item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. Can you please put that up on the board for us?

(Witness complies, marks exhibit.)

Q. So in regard to that particular evidence item, you would expect to
find that combination of DQ Alpha types and polymarker types in about
1 out of every 5200 to about 1 in every 56,000 people?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that what that means? The reason why that number is so much
larger than on item 56 is what, Dr. Cotton?

A. In this case, we're now including and multiplying together, the DQ
Alpha information and the polymarker information. So we have five
locations that we looked at on the shoe print, five pieces of
information here on the -- item 47, there are six pieces of
information and it does result in a larger range of numbers.

But also, we're looking at a different set of types, too so, you can't
make a direct comparison there.

Q. But is that, at least, in part, an example of the more genetic
markers that you are able to type, the high your frequency numbers can
become?

A. Yes. But that you -- yeah. But if you really wanted to make that
comparison, you'd take the type from the shoe print and then add a DQ
Alpha information to that, then you'd see a better relative number.

Q. Okay. Let's take now, item 48. Again, what tests were you able to
do on item 48?

A. We did the DQ Alpha test and the polymarker test.

Q. And the results on that test?

A. The results on that test for DQ Alpha are type 1.1, 1.2. The
polymarker types are the same as the types obtained from Mr. Simpson.
Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman are excluded: As possible
contributors.

Q. And when you say excluded in this context does that mean that they
could not possibly be the source of that blood evidence?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mr. Simpson could be the source; is that what your saying?

A. Yes.

Q. And I probably know the answer to this by looking at the board, but
can you tell me what the frequency calculation for that particular
evidence item was?

A. It's exactly the same as the one for item 47 because it's exactly
the same set of types.

Q. Okay. And now how about item number 49?

A. Item 49, we did a DQ Alpha test and a polymarker test. The DQ Alpha
has a 1.1, 1.2 type polymarker, the set of polymarker types are the
same as the types obtained from Mr. Simpson's known sample.

Q. So once again, Mr. Simpson is a possible source for this item of
evidence?

A. That's right.

Q. And Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson are excluded?

A. That's correct.

Q. Would the frequency for that evidence item be the same?

A. Yes, it would.

Q. Let's now then go to item 50. And by the way, I'm just asking you
about the Cellmark tests here. Other labs tested some of these same
evidence items?

A. That's right.

Q. So Cellmark's tests on item 50 showed -- first, was the PCR and
RFLP test?

A. It's a PCR test.

Q. What's the results there?

A. The results are that the DQ Alpha type is 1.1; 1.2. The polymarker
set of -- typed of the same as those for Mr. Simpson he is a possible
source. He's not excluded. Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman are
excluded.

Q. Get down or take down our patch for this one..

Once again, from the frequencies for that item be the same as for item
47?

A. Yes, it would.

Q. That's because those are the same types.

A. That's right.

Q. Why don't we have you write those up there now, so we'll have our
record complete. I hope you can reach that top line.

(Witness complies, marks exhibit at descriptions 48, 49 and 50 under
frequency column.)

Q. Now as to item number 52, possibly should have you do this before
you sat down. As to item number 52, did you also do a PCR test on that
item, which is the last of the five drops along the Bundy walkway?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what results did you get there?

A. We got a DQ Alpha type 1.1, 1.2. We got a polymarker set of types
that's the same as Mr. Simpson's.

Q. And would he, once again, therefore, by the CPCR test be included
as a possible source of that evidence item?

A. Yes.

Q. And would Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson be excluded?

A. Yes, they would.

Q. Now, as to that evidence item, were you also able to do an RFLP
test?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. The reason why you could do it on that evidence item and not the
other evidence items is what?

A. The DNA in item 52 was not as degraded as the DNA in items 50, 49,
48 and 47.

Q. And the RFLP test that you did, what results did you obtain?

A. We looked at five different genetic locations with the RFLP test
and the DNA banding pattern that we obtained from those five locations
matches, the DNA banding pattern for Mr. Simpson.

Q. By banding pattern, you mean by what you showed us on that example
before Mr. Simpson's bands appearing on the Autorad at those five
genetic locations, matched the bands that the sample created. Is that
--

A. That's right.

Q. So is Mr. Simpson therefore under both the PCR test an the RFLP
test included as a possible source of this evidence item?

A. Yes.

Q. And is Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson excluded?

A. They are excluded.

Q. Now, because you have two different tests here, did you do two
different frequency calculations for that evidence item?

A. We did one frequency calculation for the DQ Alpha polymarker and we
did a -- we did a separate calculation for the RFLP results.

Q. And would the frequency calculation for the PCR results be the same
as for the other four evidence items?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And that's because ...

A. That's because it's the same set of types that we're doing the
calculation for.

Q. The frequency calculations for the five -- by the way, let me ask
you this first: When we say on our chart here, five probe match, can
you explain what a probe is?

A. A probe is recognizing a specific genetic location so when they, on
the chart where it says five probe match, that means five RFLP genetic
locations we looked at.

Q. And taking into account that five probe match, were you able to
calculate the frequency, for the RFLP test, match that blood drop to
Mr. Simpson's type?

A. Yes.

Q. Could you put that calculation up for us, please?

A. And do you want the PCR calculation?

Q. Might as well put it while you're at it.

(Witness complies, marks exhibits under frequency column for item
numbers 52 52 and 56.

Q. So, Dr. Cotton, you put up, for the PCR test results, the same
numbers, the same frequency numbers that you found for the other blood
drops along the Bundy trail, but obviously the frequency numbers that
you found, using the RFLP test, are significantly higher. Could you
please explain why that is to us?

A. It's because the RFLP test is very much more powerful in
discriminating one person from the next. Any particular RFLP banding
pattern is not a common event.

This particular pattern calculates out to be -- Occur in this range of
1 in 170 million people to 1 in 1.2 billion people. What it means,
it's not a common occurrence so the likelihood that someone would, by
chance, have this banding pattern is small.

Q. As small as 1 in 170 million people?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, we haven't put all of the test results that you got in
connection with the Bundy crime scene on this board. But I'd like to
ask you about one other one that you did.

Did you do some testing on evidence item number 84?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you tell us what evidence item number 84 is, please.

Q. The --

A. The item was broken down into -- there's fingernail clippings,
fingernail scrapings from the right and left hand.

Q. And those are from the Nicole Brown fingernail scrapings?

A. That's right.

Q. From whom did you receive those fingernail scrapings?

A. We received extracted DNA from the California Department of Justice
Lab.

Q. And did you subject those fingernail scrapings to any tests?

A. Yes, we did, the PM and the DQ Alpha test.

Q. What test results did you get?

A. The test results we got were the same types as Nicole Brown's
types.

Q. So the DQ Alpha type for the blood from under the fingernails was
1.1, 1.1?

A. That's right.

Q. The polymarker types in this AB, B system that you described before
that matched Nicole at all five of those polymorphic marker locations?

A. That's right.

Q. These tests, this PCR test that you did on the fingernails, that's
a sensitive test; isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you -- would you be able to determine from that test if any
other person's blood was in with the blood that you tested?

In other words, if there was more than one person's blood in there?

A. Well, I have to answer that yes and no.

Q. Okay.

A. Yes. It's a sensitive test, but it does have limitations. So you
have to have enough blood to get a result. You could have a mixture of
two people and have so little of one person and so much of the second
person, that you would only see the major contributor.

You could have a mixture of two people where the amounts in that
mixture were more -- were more even and you would see both people.

So, yes, it's a sensitive test. It will not always pick up a mixture,
but it can pick up a mixture if two components are there in amounts.
At least that would reflect a 1 to 20 or a -- or above. That is, the
parts would be present 1 to 20 or one to one in that range.

Q. In other words, if you had one part of one person's blood and 20
parts of another person's blood, you could detect both of their blood
types?

A. You would possibly see that you had a mixture if you had one part,
one part of one and five parts of the other, you would do that even
better. If you had one part of one person and a hundred parts of
another person, you wouldn't see that.

Q. And in this particular test for evidence item 84, did you see any
evidence of any additional person other than the one who's types you
obtained?

A. No.

Q. Why don't we have the next board then.

(Mr. Foster complies. Displays board.)

MR. LAMBERT: This will be -- excuse me, I believe 296.

(The instrument herein referred to as board entitled "Results of DNA
Analysis - Rockingham Residence" was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 296.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, Dr. Cotton, this board reflects some
additional evidence items. These from Mr. Simpson's Rockingham
residence.

Did Cellmark test some of those items?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And first let's take item number 7 with a -- was a blood drop found
on the driveway there? Were you able to do a test on that item?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. And what were your results?

A. We have again visible, DQ Alpha results have a 1.1, 1.2. But like
one of the samples on the previous board, there was no C dot there, so
the DQ Alpha results on this particular test were inconclusive and
were not used in determining the frequency.

The polymarker results were the same as those obtained from Mr.
Simpson.

Q. And would that test therefore include Mr. Simpson as a possible
source of that evidence item?

A. Yes.

Q. And did it exclude Nicole Brown or/and Ronald Goldman as possible
sources?

A. Yes.

Q. So we can take a little patch off on this one. And did you
calculate a frequency for that particular type?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. Could you please put that on the board?

(Witness marks exhibit in frequency location under item number 7.)

Q. There's a second item on this Rockingham evidence board which is
item number 12, collected in the foyer of the house at Rockingham.
Were you able to do tests on that evidence item?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. And what tests were you able to perform on that evidence item?

A. We did a DQ Alpha and a polymarker test and also an RFLP test.

Q. And so you were able to do much more testing on this evidence item
than on evidence item number 7?

A. That's right.

Q. And do you have any idea as to why one item would test so much
better than the other item?

A. It's a matter of how degraded the DNA was. The DNA from the foyer
was in good condition. The DNA from the driveway was not.

Q. So the location at which an evidence item is found can affect how
degraded the item would be.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Definitely.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, did you do calculations for both the DQ Alpha
and RFLP for the evidence item?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. I guess before we did that, I should take off this patch because
this also includes Mr. Simpson as a possible source, didn't it?

A. It does.

Q. And neither Ronald Goldman or Nicole Brown Simpson could be
included, could they?

A. That's correct.

Q. Would you put the frequencies in, please?

A. Yes.

(Witness marks exhibit in Frequency Column for item number 12, labeled
"Rockingham foyer".)

Q. And the number that you have placed up here is for both the PCR and
RFLP. Those are the same numbers that we saw on the Bundy results
board?

A. That's right.

Q. That's because you got the same test results there?

A. Yes.

Q. And once again, for that RFLP test of the blood drop found in the
foyer, only somewhere between 1 and 170 million and 1 and 1.2 billion
people would have those -- that five probe type?

A. That's the estimate.

Q. Why don't you take that down? (Mr. Foster complies.)

MR. LAMBERT: Can I have the next one?

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) The next board is 297. Entitled "Results of DNA
Analysis Rockingham Socks."

Before we get to this board, Dr. Cotton, let me ask you, did you also
do any testing on any of the substrate controls for these evidence
items?

A. Yes, we did four substrate controls.

Q. And could you explain to us again briefly what a substrate control
is?

A. Well, it's not again. I didn't explain.

Q. All right. Thank you. Somebody else might have.

A. Somebody else might have.

Essentially, if you have a stain, you would be taking an area of the
cloth that is not obviously stained, but adjacent to the stained area.
Or if you were lifting a stain from a surface, you would lift your
stain up and then you would take another lift from an area adjacent to
the stain that was not apparently stained.

Q. And for evidence item 7, which was the blood drop in the driveway
at Rockingham that we just looked at, did you test the substrate
control for that evidence item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what result did you get?

A. We got no detectable result.

Q. So that you could not find any detectable DNA in that substrate?

A. That's right.

Q. And for evidence item number 12, which was blood drop at the foyer
that you got the RFLP result on. Did you test the control for that
evidence item?

A. Yes.

Q. What result did you get?

A. No detectable DNA.

Q. And for evidence item 49, which is one of the blood drops at Bundy
we looked at earlier, did you test the control for that item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what result did you get?

A. No detectable DNA.

Q. And for evidence item 56, which was the bloody shoe print at Bundy
that we looked at earlier, did you test the control for that item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what result did you get?

A. No detectable DNA.

Q. Thank you.

Now, let's take a look at this board, and this deals with a pair of
socks found at Rockingham. Did you do any tests in regard to that
particular evidence item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what kind of test did you do?

A. We did a PMDQ Alpha test and an RFLP test.

THE COURT: Mr. Lambert, is this going to take more than 12 minutes;
isn't it?

MR. LAMBERT: It might, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Yeah. Okay. We're going to adjourn until 8:30 tomorrow,
ladies and gentlemen. Don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinions.

(At 4:00 PM an adjournment was taken until Thursday, November 14, 1996
at 8:30 A.M.)
</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-2</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B007-162</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov14.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053735 text/html 193568
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:46:59 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 17-Nov-96 19:12:48 GMT
Content-length: 193375
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/14/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 14, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1996
8:51 AM

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JUROR: Morning, Your Honor.

THE CLERK: You're still under oath. Would you please state your name
again.

THE WITNESS: Robin Cotton.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

THE COURT: You may proceed.

ROBIN COTTON, the witness on the stand at the time of the recess,
having been previously duly sworn, was examined and testified further
as follows:

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT (Continued):

Q. Good morning, Dr. Cotton.

A. Good morning.

(Displayed board entitled "Results of DNA Analysis - Bundy Crime
Scene.")

Q. I'd like to go back to the results board from the Bundy crime
scene. This is exhibit 291, Your Honor.

Item number 52, this is the item you received the RFLP result on?

A. Yes.

Q. As you explained yesterday, these frequencies represent the
commonness or uncommonness of that blood drop in the population
generally, or that DNA result, in the population, generally?

A. Yes.

Q. So it's true to say that 1 out of every 170 million people, up to 1
out of every 1.2 billion people, would have that combination of five
genetic markers; is that --

A. Yes.

Q. Could we see the next one, please?

(Displays chart entitled "Results of DNA Analysis.")

Q. This is the results board from Rockingham and item number 12 at
Rockingham, that has the same rate of frequency at -- as item 52 at
Bundy?

A. Yes.

Q. Why is that?

A. It's the same banding pattern, that is the Bundy item 52, and the
Rockingham foyer pattern from item number 12, those patterns are the
same.

Q. Okay. So let me see if I understand this, the five probe banding
pattern for item number 12 patch, matches that for item number 52?

A. It does.

Q. And both of those match Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And 1 out of every 170 million to 1.2 billion people would have
that banding pattern?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you. Can you take down the Rockingham?

(Mr. Foster complies)

Q. Now, as you mentioned yesterday, Dr. Cotton, in addition to the
various items that you've testified to on this results board, there
were other items that you tested at Bundy, including the blood under
Nicole's fingernails and other item as well; is that right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, for all of the tests that you performed on all of the evidence
at the Bundy crime scene, did you ever obtain results showing the
presence of any alleles that could not have come from one of Mr.
Simpson, Nicole Brown or Ron Goldman?

A. There were no genetic markers, alleles present that were not
consistent with one of those three people.

Q. Okay. Good. Would you explain, just one more time, what an allele
is?

A. An allele is simply a version of a gene. So in ABO blood groups,
one is one allele, B is another allele and O is another allele.

In the polymarker system, A is one allele and B is another allele and
for every locus, you will have, and all people will have, two alleles
present; one from each parent.

Q. So for all the blood evidence that you tested at Rockingham, all of
that evidence at Bundy, I'm sorry, all of that evidence is consistent
with having come from one of the three people listed on the board up
there?

A. Or someone else with those same --

Q. It varies --

A. -- Types.

Q. Same types.

A. But there are only three groups of types present.

Q. Okay. Thank you.

And then let me ask you about one other item that you tested that we
haven't talked about, and that's item 29. Do you recall that item
being tested?

You might have to look at your notes for this one.

A. Can you tell me where that's --

Q. Item 29 is from the Bronco --

A. Yes. Okay.

Q. -- automobile. And you tested that.

Was that an evidence item that you got from LAPD or from the
Department of Justice?

A. I have to look that up.

Q. Okay.

(Witness reviews notebook.)

A. I don't think that I included -- okay. Wait a minute. You want to
know whether we got that as already extracted?

Q. Yes.

A. DNA from the Department of Justice?

Yes, we did. It was DNA that we obtained from the Department of
Justice.

Q. And what was your test result on that item? That's another page?

A. Yeah. I'm sorry. I -- I assume you don't want me to read all types
here but --

Q. Just tell me what you -- overall.

A. The overall result is that there are two people. There's more than
one person present in the DNA from that item.

Q. And one of the people that was present, is that -- could that be
consistent with Mr. Simpson?

A. Let me change your wording a little bit.

Q. Okay.

A. Mr. Simpson can't be excluded as being a contributor to the DNA in
that item.

Q. And the other possible contributor, can you include or exclude
anybody from that item?

A. Nicole Brown is excluded. And in our report we also excluded Ron
Goldman.

Q. And could you explain why Mr. Goldman was excluded from your
report?

A. There is a DQ Alpha 4 allele in that sample. Ron Goldman has a DQ
Alpha 4 allele, but he also has a 1.3. The 4 was very light. We did
not see a 1.3. So based on the results that we could see, we excluded
him.

Q. Is it scientifically possible that the 1.3 was there, but just too
light to be seen in your test?

A. That's possible.

Q. Now, let's go back to this board for just one more minute before
you put it down. The frequencies that you calculated for the PCR base
test, that is the DQ Alpha and the polymarker match, do those
frequencies include any information based upon the D1S80 runs?

A. No.

Q. This board, which is exhibit 297, is the results of DNA analysis of
the Rockingham socks. Is that one of the evidence items that you
tested, Dr. Cotton?

A. Yes.

Q. And what kind of tests were you able to do on that evidence item?

A. We did a DQ Alpha polymarker test and an RFLP test.

Q. What were your results from the DQ Alpha polymarker test?

A. The DQ polymarker test gave results that were the same as the types
of Nicole Brown.

Q. And the RFLP results, what were you able to obtain with that?

A. The RFLP banding pattern matches the banding pattern of Nicole
Brown.

Q. And once again, were you able to obtain banding patterns at all
five of your genetic probes?

A. Yes.

Q. So the possible source of that evidence item is who?

A. Nicole Brown.

Q. And are Mr. Simpson and Mr. Goldman excluded as possible sources?

A. Yes they are.

Q. And were you able to calculate frequencies for those results?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. Can you put those up on the board?

A. Sure.

(Witness draws on exhibit.)

Q. So let me see if I understand the results here, Dr. Cotton. For the
polymarker in DQ Alpha result, your figures would indicate that those
patterns could come from one in 2500 to one in out of one and -- 26 --
let me start again.

Your frequency numbers would indicate that those patterns could come
from one in 2500 to one in 26,000 people?

A. Right. That's how often you might see those -- that group of types.

Q. And when you did the RFLP result, we obviously get much more
substantial numbers.

Could you explain those, please?

A. All that's saying is that this banding pattern would be expected to
occur in -- given that we gave, three numbers all together. The lowest
frequency that we got was 16.8 billion people. That means you would
have to go through a whole lot of people before you would find or you
would expect to find a banding pattern that is the same as the pattern
that's common to the socks and Nicole Brown.

Q. And that would be a pretty rare pattern?

A. Yes, it would.

Q. Let's -- we are going to put up on the television screen here --
would you please identify for the jury what this document is. This is
evidence item 285. Exhibit 285.

(The instrument herein referred to as "Autorad Produced from Socks"
displayed on TV screen was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 285.)

A. That is the first autoradiograph or Autorad that was produced with
the sample from the socks.

Q. And this is the kind of Autorad that we showed the jury a sample of
earlier?

A. It's not exactly because we showed the jury a sample of an Autorad
where one probe had been applied. So that for each sample on that
example, there were two bands.

What's done in our lab as a first go around with the data, is to apply
four probes at once. And this Autorad shows the results from the
application of four probes all together. So if each probe produces two
bands, you would normally see eight. Sometimes they may overlap, so
you might not count eight but there would normally be eight there. It
may be occasionally six or seven.

So this does not look exactly like the example we showed.

Q. This is a little more complicated?

A. It's a little more complicated.

Q. But it's the same principle that you discussed yesterday?

A. Exactly.

Q. So can you point out for the jury, item number 13, the socks that
you tested?

A. Sure.

The pattern that you see from top to bottom right here, is the pattern
from item number 13.

Q. And would you point out what you compared that to, to match it to
Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. Well, we compared it to all -- all three known individuals. Mr.
Simpson's pattern is here. Nicole Brown's reference blood pattern is
here and Ron Goldman's reference blood pattern is here. And the
pattern from the socks is not the same as Mr. Simpson's. It's not the
same as Mr. Brown's.

If you compare the two patterns from the sock and Nicole Brown, each
place there's a band in the sock, there's a corresponding band in
Nicole Brown's pattern. This data is repeated when you do -- go back
and do one probe at a time and generate other Autorads and the pattern
from the sock does match the pattern from Nicole Brown.

Q. And that was also confirmed by the computer analysis of these
bands?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. The sock sample that you are showing us up there, evidence item
number 13, is that -- we talked yesterday a little bit about
degradation of evidence samples. Is that a particularly degraded
evidence sample?

A. No, it's not and it's in quite good condition.

Q. And can you tell by looking at this Autorad, that it's not
particularly degraded?

A. Well, I can tell from looking at the Autorad. We don't normally put
our Autorads up on a TV screen. You just look at them on a light box,
so -- and that's a lot -- it's a better way to be looking at them. But
it's not -- it wouldn't give you -- to you in such a big format. So
both from looking at the TV screen here and remembering what the
Autorad looks like, that sample is in good condition.

Q. And let me ask you a hypothetical about that: Assume that the
socks, evidence item number 13, that this sample was found on, were
worn by the killer when he killed Nicole Brown Simpson, and that the
blood from Nicole Brown Simpson was splashed onto those socks, fresh
out of her body. And that a half hour later, or thereabouts, the
killer took off the socks, left them on a clean area rug where they
dried overnight; air dried overnight. Could that explain the relative
lack of degradation of that evidence sample?

A. Yes, it could.

Q. Why could it?

A. From -- both from experience from making samples in the laboratory,
and particularly looking at a lot of case work, when samples are very
fresh and dried immediately, they do not degrade. We also know -- also
know from a lot of experiment, not just in my laboratory but many
others, that drying a sample in a dry clean environment does preserve
the sample very well.

If you have a sample that's in an unclean environment or a lot of heat
or a lot of humidity, that's not as good.

Now, comparing that to the reference sample for Nicole Brown, which we
also see on your Autorad, what's the state of degradation of that
reference sample as tested by you?

A. The reference sample for Nicole Brown is substantially degraded.
The dark background that you see behind the bands, and all the way
down (witness indicates), this dark smear that you see behind the
bands, following all the way down the lane is typical evidence of
degradation.

Now, it's not so degraded that you can't obtain an RFLP pattern, but
that's what a degraded -- a sample that has a moderate amount of
degradation looks like.

Q. And if this reference sample was taken during an autopsy of Nicole
Brown Simpson that was performed more than 24 hours after her death,
could that explain that relative state of degradation?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, can you compare the differences in the degradation between
Nicole Brown reference sample in item number 13, the socks?

A. Yes.

Q. Is it a discernable difference in degradation?

A. Yes.

Q. In your opinion, Dr. Cotton, is it likely that the blood you tested
on item number 13, the socks, came from that reference sample that you
also tested?

A. No, it's not likely.

Q. I have no further questions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Cross-examine.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you, Your Honor.

MR. LAMBERT: I did forget to introduce my exhibit. May I do that
before we start?

THE COURT: You may.

MR. LAMBERT: Exhibits 2179.

THE CLERK: One moment.

MR. LAMBERT: Sorry.

THE CLERK: Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: Maybe I should try to do it in numerical order

THE CLERK: It doesn't matter.

MR. LAMBERT: It doesn't matter. 2179, 273, 2180, 2181, 276, 274, 275,
2182, 2183, and 285.

THE COURT: Okay. They're received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2179 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 273 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2180 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2181 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 276 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 274 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 275 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2182 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2183 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 285 was
received in evidence.)

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Dr. Cotton, can you give us an estimate of the amount of time that
you spent on this case when you were working for the prosecution, just
approximately?

A. The number of hours I put in?

Q. Yes.

A. I don't know. A lot.

Q. A lot. Didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And the tests that were done on the 23 items were paid for by tax
payers of Los Angeles County, correct?

A. Yes, they were.

Q. And all of your time that you spent in the criminal case were paid
for by the taxpayers of Los Angeles County?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, it's -- have the plaintiffs reimburseed taxpayers of Los
Angeles County for any of that work.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) How many hours have you spent working for the
plaintiffs in this case?

A. Probably, including the time that I've been here?

Q. Yes.

A. Probably about eight or nine days.

Q. And what do you charge per day?

A. For my time here, the company will charge $1200 a day for time that
I spend in the office. Some of that time is in short chunks and
doesn't really get charged at all and if it's a substantial block of
time, it would be $200 an hour.

Q. You have no personal knowledge as to how the evidence was
collected, preserved and packaged before it was sent to your lab?

A. That's right.

Q. Would you agree with your -- that your test results are only as
good as the evidence that you're given by an outside agency?

A. Of course,

Q. And if you're given evidence from an outside agency that has been
contaminateed or degraded or tampered with or whatever, you can't make
it any better, can you?

A. No.

Q. So your test results are only as reliable as the evidence that you
get?

A. Yes.

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, I need to get some exhibits back here.

( Pause in the proceedings.)

(Chart entitled "Where is DNA Found" displayed.)

MR. BLASIER: I think that's exhibit 273.

Q. (BY R. BLASIER) Doctor, can you see that from where you're sitting?

A. Sure.

Q. Now, I want to ask you a couple more questions about what DNA is to
try and give us a conceptual framework of what we're talking about.
Every cell that has a nucleus has DNA in it, correct?

A. Yes. We have about six trillion cells in our body, correct?

A. I don't know.

Q. That's an estimate that's given.

A. If it's in some text book somewhere, I would certainly accept that.

Q. That's 6 million, million, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And most of those are nonred blood cells, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now every one of those cells has the same DNA in it as every other
cell?

A. Yes.

Q. So if you take some DNA from hair, it's going to be the same as DNA
from your blood from your skin, from other bodily tissue, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's one of the ways you can compare hair sample with blood
sample with DNA technology, correct?

A. Sure.

Q. Now, going back down to the lower level here, the structure of DNA,
you described it as a ladder type structure?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. It's like a coiled up ladder, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And it's made up of only four molecules, correct, that are of
significance to us.

A. Yes.

Q. That's the A, C and the G and T?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in a single cell the DNA in one cell is you have 6 billion of
these base pairs or 6 billion rungs of the ladder in every cell,
correct?

A. Exactly.

Q. And 3 billion of the cells, ru --- rungs you get from mom and 3
billion you get from dad.

A. Yes.

Q. We can think of it in terms of a tinker toy ladder that has two
hubs and a stick in the middle through the rung. And the left hub is
going to be an A and the right hub is going to be a T. The right hub
could be a C and the left hub could be a G?

A. Yes.

Q. You can figure out how these go together, round letters go
together. A and C and G -- I'm sorry, guess you can't do that. Anyway,
they only go together one way, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, 3 billion base pairs, if we want to try and understand
the scale of this, if you think about a little toy ladder, like a kid
might have on a fire engine, if the rungs of that ladder are half an
inch apart, the entire DNA, if it was stretched, end to end, would be
3 billion half inches, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. I didn't do the math. It turned out to be about 25 thousand miles.
Does that sound right?

A. I haven't done the math.

Q. You can assume that hypothetically.

A. Fine.

Q. Once around the world.

And the second 3 billion pairs of rungs, that comes from the other
parents, is the same length, correct?

A. Yeah. Yeah, about.

Q. Okay.

So you can think of this as two ladders that are side by side that go
around the world?

A. Well, only if the base pairs are half an inch apart.

Q. Right?

A. Which they're not.

Q. You can't see it without a microscope?

A. Yes.

Q. And you can't even see the individual molecules without extremely
sophisticated equipment?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, when you do an RFLP test, would you say, is the -- let me ask
you this:

Isn't it true that if you have the DNA from a piece of evidence and
the DNA from a suspect, if there is a single rung of that ladder that
is different from one to the other, it came from different people?

A. Yes. If you have two RFLP patterns and you have a band in one that
is different than --

Q. That wasn't my question, Doctor. A single base pair difference --

A. Oh.

Q. -- Between evidence and suspect means they didn't come from the
same person, correct?

A. Well, that theoretically is correct, but you --

Q. Thank you.

And when you do an RFLP test, what is the average fragment lengths
that you look at?

A. Your -- the range of fragment length that are looked at on our gels
are 1600 to about 23,000 base pairs.

Q. Okay. So from 1600, which is about 800 inches, under my scenario,
to 23,000 half inches or about 12,000 inches, correct?

That's all you look at?

A. Yes.

Q. Out of the whole 25,000 mile ladder, correct?

A. Yes, we're just looking at a small section of DNA.

Q. An extremely small section of DNA?

A. Yes, compared to the total, sure.

Q. And the polymarker system that -- the alleles that you look at in
the polymarker system are even smaller, aren't they?

They're in the neighborhood of 250 base pairs, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Or 120 inches, like ten feet compared to the whole chain?

A. If we --

Q. Isn't that correct?

A. I don't know about your numbers. If we just stick with base pairs,
then I'll be able to answer your questions a little bit better.

Q. 250 out of 6 billion, correct or 3 billion?

A. For each locus you're looking at a small piece, which may be about
250 base pairs.

Q. You're not looking at any of the rest of the 6 billion base pairs,
are you?

A. No.

Q. Now, you actually don't have one continuous piece of DNA that goes
all the way around the world. It's broken down into 23 sections?

A. It's broken down into 46 sections.

Q. For each ladder is 23, one from mom one from dad, correct?

A. Right.

Q. That corresponds to the chromosomes?

A. Yes.

Q. So it's, you know, one twenty-third, approximately, of the ladder
is going to be one chromosome and scientists have given these numbers,
chromosome number 1, number 2, et cetera?

A. Yes.

Q. And if you go down below, within a chromosome, they're broken down
into the smaller segment or they're blocked out in smaller segments
that are called genes, correct?

A. They can be, yes.

Q. Okay. And a gene is simply a series of base pairs that could have a
wide variations in length, but it's just by definition, scientists
have defined certain things to be a gene?

A. A gene is a functional unit that actually conveys information to
the cell, yes.

Q. So a particular section of the ladder that might have 100,000,
200,000 base pairs scientists might say, we think that this is
connected to hair color, for instance, and so that's a gene that might
be conected to hair color?

A. Yes.

Q. An allele is a fairly short segment of DNA, that's all it is,
correct?

A. An allele could be very long. It could be very short. It doesn't --
there's no connection between an allele and length.

Q. But the alleles you look at don't go any higher than 23,000 base
pairs?

A. Well that's correct for this test. But you could have an allele of
a gene that was 100,000 base pairs.

Q. For purposes of this test, you're only looking, at the most, 23,000
base pairs?

A. For one, for one locus.

Q. Okay. If the roughly 10,000 base pairs average from 1600 to 23, --
20,000 -- excuse me -- and in it's 5 probe matches that you were
talking about, there are two bands for each probe, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And again, we're talking about two side by side segments of the
ladder; one from mom, one from dad in each probe?

A. Yes.

Q. And those five segments total together, if our average is 10,000
base pairs per segment, is only 50,000 base pairs that you're looking
at for an RFLP test?

A. For five.

Q. For five probes?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is the one that you say conveys the most information of
all -- of all the tests?

A. Yes. Of the testing that people -- labs are doing today, this is
the most powerful test.

MR. BLASIER: Now, can we get the diagram board, Phil?

MR. P. BAKER: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Doctor, what is a nanogram?

A. It's one times ten to the minus ninth grams.

Q. It's a billionth of a gram, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And how many grams are in a pound, 454?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. So a nanogram is an extremely small amount; is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. How many nanograms are there estimated to be in a single drop of
blood?

A. I'm not sure how to -- The way to answer that question is to think
of a drop in a more precise volume. We get about 10,000 nanograms from
an amount of blood that would be a little less than the size of this
pen top.

Q. This is exhibit 987.

(The instrument herein referred to as chart entitled "Small Amounts of
DNA From Specs of Blood" was marked for identification as Defendants'
Exhibit No. 987.)

Q. You heard the figure that there are 1,000 to 2,000 nanograms per --
I'm sorry. Give me that again, your figure of how many nanograms in a
-- in a size of blood the size of --

A. We get about 10 micrograms, which is about 10,000 nanograms in
about 700 microliters of blood.

Q. Okay.

A. So you could calculate, sort of. You could go down and workout how
many -- what volume of blood would produce a certain amount of
nanograms and I haven't done that recently.

Q. Okay. Just to get a rough estimate, 20 nanograms of blood is going
to be extremely small; is it not?

A. Yeah. It's going to be small but I can't tell you how small.

Q. Okay. And two nanograms is going to be, of course, one tenth as
small as 20; isn't it?

A. Yes, of course.

Q. How many drops of blood are there in a CC, cubic centimeter?

A. I don't know. I mean, how big a drop is, is a very subjective
thing. So in the laboratory, you don't measure things in terms of
drops. So I don't really have a figure for you -- for that. I don't
know.

Q. Have you heard the figure 20? Is that an approximation?

A. I haven't heard any physician -- I don't know a common figure for a
drop. I'm not aware that there's a common figure for a drop.

Q. Have you heard an estimate of 20 drops per --

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Calls for hearsay. Irrelevant.

THE WITNESS: There may be such an estimate. I'm just not aware of it,
you know. That's just the state of what I know.

Q. Let's -- can we put the pad up for a second?

(Counsel displays drawing pad.)

Q. Can I borrow your black pen there?

A. Sure.

Q. I'm going to try and draw this.

Now there are a number of different terms that are used in forensic
science for when two things appear to be -- or could come from the
same source, aren't there?

A. Yes, sure.

Q. And I've used the term "match" in the context of DNA testing,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And none of the tests that you do are capable of establishing or do
establish unique identity, do they?

A. No, I don't agree agree with you.

Q. Well, the estimate that you come up in terms of numbers are
statistical estimate based on some formulas that you do, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you cannot possibly look at all of the DNA in a sample. You're
only looking at a very small part of it, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And these tests do not establish a unique identification the way
I've used them, do they?

A. If you do, if you have available to you, a series of a large enough
series of problems on an RFLP test. I'm not saying that five is
necessarily large enough. I'm just saying if you have enough, I would
say perhaps ten or more, I don't think there's a scientist who would
argue with you that you've established identity.

Q. But no scientist will tell you that with five probes you've
established a unique identification, will they?

A. I don't think that. Yes, I agree that five probes would not be
necessarily considered to be an identification.

Q. And you've heard the term "match" used in the context of, for
instance, hair and fiber evidence where it means a hair could have
come from the suspect or, then again, it might not have, right?

A. Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Beyond the scope. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Excuse me. There's an objection. Objection sustained as
being beyond the scope.

MR. BLASIER: Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: Like the answer to be stricken.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) I'm trying to name what a match is for purposes of
the jury's understanding this. Okay, Doctor?

A. Okay.

Q. Now, with RFLP technology, which provides the most information, you
look at bands on an X-ray, correct?

A. It's not an X-ray, but you look at bands on a -- on the spray film.

Q. Okay. But -- and if we consider one band to be from the evidence
and one band to be from the suspect -- you with me so far?

A. Um-hum.

Q. And with RFLP, you look at an average of 10,000 base pairs per
band, an easy round number, okay?

So let's say that you have determined that the evidence band is 10,000
base pairs?

A. Yes.

Q. In order for your suspect to match the evidence, the suspect's
corresponding band has to be 10,000 base pairs correct?

A. No.

Q. Well, let me rephrase it.

In order for the DNA from the suspect to be identical to the DNA from
the evidence, it has have the same sequence and the same number of
base pairs?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. So for identity to be established, would this one section,
anyway, you've got to have 10,000 base pairs from the suspect that
matches exactly the 10,000 from the evidence, correct?

A. Right. But --

Q. Okay.

A. Let -- that wouldn't establish identity.

Q. Correct. Well, okay.

Even that's not enough to establish identity?

A. Of course not.

Q. The sequence itself could be different?

A. Even if the sequence was identical, you'd still not have
established identity.

Q. You have a lot of other DNA that you're not even looking at, you're
only looking at one small piece?

A. Yes.

Q. This is what you look at with one band of one probe?

A. Yes.

Q. Correct.

Now, if it turned out that your suspect band was 9,999 and your
evidence band is 10,000, those two samples came from different people,
correct?

A. In theory, that would be correct.

Q. In truth that's correct; isn't it?

A. In practice, we can't make that determination.

Q. Doctor, In theory that's true; isn't it?

A. Yes. But you didn't --

Q. Thank you.

A. You --

Q. We'll do this step by step. Okay?

Now, for 10,000 base pair segments, what is the window size that you
use -- explain that in a minute. Explain to me what the window size is
approximately in percentages?

A. I think it's around probably 2.6 percent.

Q. Plus or minus 2.6?

A. Yeah. I don't have those figures with me but that will have to do
as a --

Q. Okay Let's take plus or minus 2.5, little easier number to work
with.

A. Okay.

Q. Now, if you have a suspect sample, that is, percentages are 9,500
base pairs long and your evidence sample is 10,000, you know that
these came from two different people if you know those numbers
precisely?

A. If you knew the numbers precisely, you would know that.

Q. Okay. And further you would know that if the suspect's base --
Fragment was 10,500 base pairs long you would know, if you were able
to determine those numbers precisely, that these two samples came from
different people, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And virtually all there are a thousand possibilities between 10,500
and 9,500 of base pair lengths, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Only one of those, 1000 possibilities is going to be identical to
your evidence, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. 999 of them are going to be a different person, correct, if we're
able to measure this?

A. If you're able to measure it, that would be correct.

Q. Now, you're not able to measure it this way are you?

A. No.

Q. And because the measurement techniques that are used are not
sophisticated enough to measure fragment length you give yourself a
window within which to call something a match, don't you?

A. Yes all RFLP labs do that.

Q. What you say is gee, since we can't measure this very precisely
we're going to say if it's 10,500 base pairs, we're going to call it a
match to 10,000, aren't you 'cause that's within your window; isn't
it?

A. Well, forgetting the math for a minute, if it's within the window,
then it's called a match. And if it's not within the window, then it
would either be an inconclusive or an exclusion.

Q. Okay. So every one of the thousand possibilities in here within
this range, you will call a match. But only one of them out of the
thousand is truly a match, correct?

A. Theoretically, if you were -- theoretically, yes, what you're
saying is absolutely true.

Q. Okay. Thank you, Doctor?

A. But we don't have that information.

Q. You're not -- you can't measure it good enough, can you?

A. It's not a measure -- matter of measuring it good enough, it's what
is the technique able to do.

Q. The technique is unable to measure it with any, or more precision
than this, correct, Doctor?

A. Yes. That's correct.

Q. And the wider this window is, the more -- the greater the chance is
that you're going to call somebody a match, a suspect and an evidence
band as a match, when it came from different people, correct?

A. I don't think that follows, no.

Q. Oh, you don't. Okay. And this is true, this window that you use,
because of measurement, is used for every one of the problems that you
use in RFLP, correct?

A. There is a window, a size window, yes, that you compare for each
probe, for each band.

Q. So for a five probe match, where you're looking at ten bands,
you've got this, plus or minus, roughly five percent. I know it
changes for the size of the band, but for the sake of discussing it,
you've got this same window, if you will, on every single one of those
bands, don't you?

A. Yes, you do.

Q. Could we have this marked next in order, please?

THE CLERK: 2184.

MR. BLASIER: 2184.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Hand Drawn Diagram by Mr.
Blasier was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No.
2184.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) The one you gave was 530 billion. I think it was a
five probe match using this technique. Would you allow yourself a
large -- or a window -- I won't say a large window, to call something
a match when you can't tell that it's the same, can you?

A. We use this technique to come to that number, yes.

Q. And your computer program that you talked about, that doesn't make
it any more accurately than this either, does it?

A. Computer program, I talked about the computer imaging system; is
that what you're referring to?

Q. Yes.

A. The computer imaging system is what you use to come up with the
number in base pairs that the bands are.

Q. Okay. And -- but that's not a precise number either; is it?

A. No. Each one of those measurements is as good as the technology
will allow.

Q. Okay. Of your 1 in 530 billion sample that you told us about, which
was -- which one was that?

Q. Do you remember what that was?

A. The sock.

Q. It's a five probe match, 10 band, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. You have your sizing sheet with you?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Can I take a look at that these, please?

A. Which one do you want to look at?

Q. All of them. You don't have them on one page? Do you have them on
one page?

A. All of the bands for?

Q. For that match?

A. No. The sock?

Q. Correct, for that 1 in 530 billion that you gave us.

A. Yeah. It will take me a few minutes to find it.

Q. Okay. Your Honor this might be a good time to give her a chance to
--

THE COURT: Okay. Ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court outside the
presence of the jury.)

MR. LAMBERT: Your Honor, I wanted to raise one evidentiary objection
to the line of questioning that Mr. Blasier has been following that
has to do with the request for admission that we intend to read into
evidence later. They have admitted all of these RFLP results. For
example, request No. 387 asks that they admit that the blood contained
in the item identified as evidence item 12, matched Mr. Simpson's
blood banding pattern at all five of the single locus probes tested by
Cellmark. They admitted that request for admission. They admitted all
of the RFLP results.

I think this line of questioning is irrelevant and an undue
consumption of time.

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, the line of questioning is to show what it
means to say something matches. We did admit those. I'm exploring with
this witness, what a match is and what isn't.

THE COURT: Read that request for admission, please.

MR. LAMBERT: I'll read it specifically the way the language is, Your
Honor, and this is for all of them. I'll read one.

This is number 12, admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 12, matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at all of the five single locus
probes known as MS1, MS31, MS4 --

THE REPORTER: Excuse me, can you repeat MS ...

MR. LAMBERT: MS1, MS31, MS43, G3 and YNH24 when subjected to an RFLP
test by Cellmark.

MR. BLASIER: We agree we admitted that. I'm not suggesting that they
don't match under the way that term is defined. I'm exploring what
that really means, that it doesn't mean that they're the same. That's
the important point that I can make on cross-examination.

MR. LAMBERT: I would certainly make a 352 objection, Your Honor, that
it's been hours and hours of time talking about what a match means is
unnecessary. They can simply ask her what a match means and that
should do it.

MR. BLASIER: I don't think -- they don't like I'm making points with
their witness, Your Honor.

THE COURT: How much more of this do you have?

MR. BLASIER: On this line, not a lot.

THE COURT: What's a lot?

MR. BLASIER: Ten minutes.

THE COURT: Okay. I'll permit ten minutes worth.

Bring the jury in.

THE BAILIFF: Jury walking in.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were resumed in open court in the presence
of the jury:)

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Dr. Cotton, one of the items you testified to was
item number 12, a Rockingham drop, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the frequency that you gave for that five probe match was 170
million to 1 in 1.2 billion, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And as we said before, a five probe match means you're looking at
10 bands, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you determined that under the way you used the term "match,"
all of those matched, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, you use a computer to estimate how long the fragments are of
those bands, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's from your Autorad, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Of those ten bands, tell me how many of them your computer said
were the same length as the evidence band, identical lengths?

A. Okay. But let -- give me just a minute.

Q. So what you want to know is based on our estimated band sizes. Were
any of those identical in length between the DNA banding pattern in
the foyer and the DNA banding pattern from Mr. Simpson?

Your computer comes up with an estimate that this band is 10,120 base
pairs, right?

Isn't that what your computer comes up with?

Where is it?

A. There's no size on here. That's what you just said. Okay.

Q. So it doesn't measure the number of base pairs, does it?

A. Yes, the -- your estimating the number of base pairs that makes up
each one of those bands. I was just trying to clarify and make sure I
was answering the question that you asked me.

Q. Okay.

A. Then you didn't say anything so I -- that helped me with that so --

Q. Well --

A. -- I didn't know what to do.

Q. When you get something from your computer, does it say I estimate
this band to be a specific number of base pairs?

A. Right. Those are the numbers on these two sheets.

Q. Okay. So it looks at the suspect bands, looks at the evidence bands
and it estimates each of those bands, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Tell me, of the ten bands that you looked at for item number 12,
how many of those did your computer say had the same number of base
pairs?

A. Three.

Q. So seven of them, your computer said had a different number of base
pairs, right?

A. Yes. The sizes are different.

Q. And if you have a different number of base pairs, it's a different
person; isn't it?

A. If you knew that then, the answer would be yes.

Q. Okay. And your 1 and 1.2 billion doesn't take into account the fact
that you are just estimating fragment length. You cannot say they are
the same, can you? Can you, Doctor?

A. I can't answer your question because those two things aren't
exactly related. Your question doesn't make sense to me.

Q. In terms of the formula that gets you to the 1.2 billion, does it
make any difference whether your computer says two bands are very
close together or two percent apart?

A. No.

Q. So you score a band, two different bands. If there's a difference
in the evidence of the suspect of two percent, you still call it a
match and it counts such -- just as much as if your computer says
they're the same, right?

A. Yes it does.

Q. I'm going to switch to PCR for a second.

PCR is a much less discriminating system than the RFLP system we've
been talking about, correct?

A. In terms of looking at difference between people, what we have now,
the answer is yes.

Q. There's less information that you can glean from, to put into a
formula, correct?

A. Right, for the PCR, things that we're testing.

Q. That's because there is not as much variations among people in the
segment of DNA that you look at with PCR type tests, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, PCR is not exactly a type of test. That's the process by which
you start with a little amount of DNA and make it into a big amount?

A. Yes, exactly.

Q. And that process is called amplification, correct?

A. Yes, it is.

(Counsel displays chart.) (The instrument herein referred to as a
chart entitled "PCR Amplification" was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 988.)

MR. BLASIER: This is number 788.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) And what happens in this process is that you don't
actually make copies of the whole DNA. You cut out a small section
like we talked about, for instance, for the DQ Alpha system, each
segment that you look at is about 254 base pairs, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. It's a very, very small segment?

A. It's 254 base pairs or whatever it comes to be.

Q. Right. And what you do is if you have a very small amount of DNA in
your evidence, you have to use this process to evaluate it at all,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. The RFLP system is not sensitive enough to evaluate small amounts
of DNA, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And what you do is you take those fragments and you go through a
process which we don't really have to understand but essentially it
goes through cycles and it doubles the amount of DNA with each cycle,
correct?

A. That's right.

Q. So if you started out, just hypothetically, with one fragment, 254
base pairs long and you went through and you put it in your little
machine and it goes through 32 cycles, theoretically, if it doubled
each time, you wind up with a whole heck of a lot of fragment?

A. Yes.

Q. If you had this many fragments, that's enough to do some analysis
on, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. Whereas the smaller amount is not?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, it is also true, is it not -- this is 989.

THE CLERK: I think that last exhibit is 988.

MR. BLASIER: I'm sorry 988 that makes sense.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "PCR
Amplification with Three Copies" was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 989.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) It is also true, if you have a tiny amount of DNA
from more than one source in a sample, when you put it through these
cycles conceivably every component also multiplies and doubles each
time you do it, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So if you have a couple of fragments that came from one source and
let's say a contaminant, which can be a DNA from another source is --
if there's a small amount, when you amplify it the contaminant gets
amplified?

A. Assuming there's enough of it.

Q. The process by which you do this amplification is what gives you
the great sensitivity with PCR test that you don't have with RFLP
tests, right?

A. That's right.

Q. By the same token, it's also the biggest weakness in the sense a
contaminant gets multiplied also, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So that you have to take many extra precautions while you're doing
PCR work that may not be as necessary with RFLP work to protect genes
against contamination, giving you the wrong results, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Lambert asked you about degradation. I'm going to to put up --

MR. P. BAKER: This is 1034.

MR. BLASIER: We're going to go through a series of slides here as an
exam -- Can you focus that a little better?

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1034.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) This is just a hypothetical situation, you have
DNA from person number one. And just -- my example is you have four
different pieces of DNA and the type is one. You got me -- you with me
so far?

THE COURT: I think he's defocusing it.

Q. Doesn't have to be clear to understand what we're doing here?

A. We have four pieces of DNA and they're all A1.

Q. You with me so far?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the process of degradation is the DNA actually breaking up
into pieces, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And as a piece degrades, for instance, if you have DNA wet, a wet
blood sample for instance, that's out, not sealed into plastic for a
period of time, wet, that can cause degradation, can it not?

A. It might.

Q. And that would mean that you would perhaps, less -- DNA as it
breaks into pieces, you'd have less DNA to analyze, correct?

A. You don't physically have less DNA. The DNA isn't going away but
the pieces that are there are getting smaller.

Q. Right. The portion of it that you can analyze is getting smaller,
right?

A. Yes.

MR. P. BAKER: 1035 is displayed.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1035.)

MR. BLASIER: Now 1036.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1036.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Heat is another mechanism by which DNA can
degrade, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And so, if we add heat to our mixture here, you might wind up with
less DNA you can analyze, it's still there in pieces but there's less
you can analyze, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. If we add moisture to that --

MR. P. BAKER: 1037.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1037.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) 1037. Moisture's also factor that can cause DNA to
break down even further?

A. Yes.

Q. If we add all those things together, we might take a sample of DNA,
and we add all those things and you wind up --it's so broke up that
you have too little to test?

A. That's possible.

Q. It's not going to change the type, but you don't get any type,
right?

A. Right.

MR. P. BAKER: 1038.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1038.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) 1038. We might end up at the end of the chain with
broken up DNA that you can't tell anything about?

A. Yes, that's possible.

Q. And if you tested that, you wouldn't get a result?

A. Right.

Q. I want to talk about contamination. The term "contamination" can
mean several things?

A. Sure.

Q. One of the things it can mean is a little DNA from another source
getting into a sample, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And let's say you start it, hypothetically, with a sample that had
been subjected to plastic, heat and moisture and had degraded to the
point where there wasn't enough there to really analyze. And you add
blood from a second person, small amount of blood from the second
person. You with me so far?

A. Well sort of, but you said there wasn't enough to analyze, but you
still got one there.

Q. Okay. Well, let's -- you can -- you can -- there is a lower amount
beyond which you can't analyze. It's still there, but you can't
analyze it?

A. Right. On your last thing, when you said there wasn't anything,
there was no one there so --

Q. Okay. Assume there's no one there.

MR. P. BAKER: 1041 displayed.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1041.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Let's say a small amount of DNA from another
person gets in that sample through whatever mechanism. Okay?

A. Okay.

Q. And one mechanism might be that if there was a small amount of
blood on the hand of the person examining a cloth swatch, for
instance, it might be transferred from the person's hand into the
swatch, correct.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence. Misstates the
evidence, improper hypothetical.

THE COURT: Overruled on the hypothetical.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) That's one mechanism you can get a contaminant
into a sample, correct?

A. If you have -- you had blood on your -- let's say glove, which
would be -- and that blood was wet and you physically touched the
swatch, could you transfer some?

Q. Yeah.

A. Possibly so.

Q. And again we're talking about PCR. We're talking about extremely
small amounts that you can amplify, correct?

A. Yes. You can amplify extremely small amounts and then you also have
to worry about, does your test detect that, so . . .

Q. Right.

A. So there are limitations there.

Q. So when you amplify this particular sample and we're assuming
there's not enough here in the one to come up with a type (referring
to exhibit 1041), I have four -- I have four times as much as one.

Let's say there's no one there when you amplify this, you're going to
amplify all these twos each cycle, correct?

A. Yes. There's no one there and you add those four twos of -- you'll
amplify the twos since there's no one left over.

Q. Okay. And at the end, if you test that because you're not --
Because you've made much, much more, we'll assume there's no --

MR. BLASIER: What slide is this?

MR. P. BAKER: 1043.

(The instrument herein referred to as illustration of blood
degradation slide was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit
No. 1043.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) 1043.

That's going to look like when you test the blood, consistent with
person number 2; isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the amounts of DNA and the various samples you tested, 23
samples I think you said?

A. Yes.

Q. Most of those samples had an -- a very small amount of DNA; isn't
that correct?

A. No. Some of them had fairly substantial amounts of DNA and some of
them didn't.

Q. Okay. You were only able to do RFLP tests, I think, on two or
three?

A. We did RFLP tests, got results for RFLP tests on the sock. On the
Bundy drop, number 52 --

Q. 52 and 12?

A. And 12 from the foyer.

Q. That's out of the 23, three of them had enough DNA for an RFLP
test?

A. Yes.

Q. What's the minimum amount of DNA that you need to get an RFLP
result?

A. You can generally get an RFLP result with about 25 nanograms.

Q. Okay. And if a drop of blood has, hypothetically, 1 to 2 thousand
nanograms, 50 nanograms is a very small amount?

A. Is 50 a small amount of 2,000?

Q. Yeah.

A. Yeah.

Q. Okay. And sample number 52, the Bundy drop, you were able -- 52 --
able to test that to see approximately how much DNA was there before
you did the RFLP test?

A. We did some test that give you an indication of amounts of DNA,
yes.

Q. And for 52, it was a very small amount; wasn't it?

A. Actually 52 is in such a small amount.

Q. What was your estimate in terms of nanograms?

A. The estimate, when you go back and you look at how much -- how much
you get on the tests that's designed to do this, you come up with
about 200, 250 nanograms in that -- in that sample.

Q. Now, you also did, on the other Bundy drops, you did a similar
analysis to try and find out how much DNA was in the other Bundy
drops, correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And do you -- that by means of a test called a slot blot?

A. That's right.

Q. We don't have to understand how that works. They just have a way of
measuring quantities, correct?

A. That's a way of --

Q. Estimate?

A. -- Estimating how much human DNA you have present.

Q. And you did that for item 47, which was the first Bundy drop and
you didn't find any human DNA, did you.

(Pause for witness to review documents.)

A. You just asked me about 47.

Q. Correct.

A. That's right. We did not. On that slot blot test, we're not
detecting any DNA.

Q. And isn't it true that for all of the other Bundy drops, other than
52, and 47 which has none that you detected, the amounts were
extremely small?

A. For the other Bundy drops, the amounts were in the range of 50 and
less.

Q. And some of them were down. One of them was like 1.8 nanograms,
approximately. These are rough estimates; aren't they?

A. I actually have redone these estimates and I can't remember where I
put the paper where I wrote those down right this second. But there
were estimates in the range of 55. I don't remember if there's one,
one specifically at 1.8. That wouldn't surprise me.

Q. We're talking about small amounts on the Bundy drops with the
exception of 52?

A. With the exception of 52.

Q. Which is a small amount of RFLP. It was enough to get a result.

A. Yes.

Q. And the kit that you use for taking DQ Alpha testing is warranted
to amounts no smaller than 2 nanograms, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant. It's all been admitted.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BLASIER: What grounds?

THE COURT: What's the relevance of the warranty?

MR. BLASIER: If their using amounts less than what the test is
warranted for, that's relevant.

MR. LAMBERT: It's been admitted.

MR. BLASIER: What's been admitted?

THE COURT: Is there a request for admissions?

MR. BLASIER: This goes to it's weight.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. BLASIER: This goes to it's weight.

THE COURT: You said you were going to develop some numbers. Fine,
develop the numbers. I don't think it would go to the warranty of the
testing.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Did you follow the instructions in the manual that
comes with the kit with respect to the minimum quantities that it's
warranted for?

A. No, we don't.

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now I'm going ask you a couple questions about
accreditation. There is -- there's an organization in the country that
evaluates forensic labs, crime labs to accredit them?

A. Yes.

Q. What's the name of that organization?

A. It's the American Society of Crime Laboratories, Crime Laboratory
Directors Laboratory Accreditation Board.

Q. And there's a fairly complicated process that you have to go
through to show that your lab is up to speed in terms of following all
the required protocols and doing good work before you can be
accredited, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And your lab is accredited; is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. In fact, it's one of the very few. There's only five in the country
that's accredited?

A. There are many labs in the country, but we are the only private lab
in the country that's currently accredited.

Q. Police Department SID lab is not?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, you indicated when you were talking about
your background that you have some connection to the Association of
Blood Banks I think you said.

A. American Association of Blood Banks.

Q. And so you're familiar with the way blood banks do their jobs,
correct?

A. Actually, I'm not at all familiar with the way blood banks do their
jobs.

Q. Are you familiar with the proficiency testing that is used in that
industry?

A. Only as it applies to paternity testing.

Q. Okay.

Now, proficiency testing is a way to kind of monitor yourself to see
how well your people are doing, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the form of proficiency testing that is the most desirable in
terms of giving you the most helpful information is called external
blind proficiency testing, correct?

A. That's one form of testing, but I don't agree that it's necessarily
the most desirable.

Q. Well, that's external, means somebody other than you makes up the
test, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And blind means you don't know you're being tested, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And there are lots of studies that show that if you know you're
being tested, you may perform differently than when you don't know
you're being tested.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Lack of foundation, irrelevant, outside the
scope.

THE COURT: Overruled. Direct examination inquired about proficiency
tests.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Would you agree with that?

A. I don't know about the proficiency tests that are done in DNA
typing labs. I don't know anything about studies that may be done
about what kind of proficiency tests show what --

Q. Isn't that -- your in charge of all the people that work in your
lab, aren't you?

A. Yes. Of course, I am.

Q. Isn't that something that you would want to be familiar with?

A. The area of proficiency test in general, and whether they are blind
or not blind and how that mentally affects the person that is taking
them, is outside my area of expertise.

Q. So you don't care about that?

A. I didn't say that.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

MR. BLASIER: You don't monitor any studies about that?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You're not subjected to external blind proficiency
testing, are you?

A. We are not. I don't know any lab that is.

Q. External blind proficiency testing is used all the time within the
medical field, with blood banks, that sort of thing; isn't it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Beyond the scope, irrelevant.

THE COURT: That's irrelevant.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now Mr. Lambert asked you about a couple of
proficiency tests that you -- that you took. One was in 1988 and that
was put on by the California Association of Crime Lab Directors,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And in that test you were given, your people knew they were being
tested, correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And you were given 44 different samples, correct?

A. 49.

Q. 49? And you had one error, one false positive out of 49, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that error was a, what's called, a "false positive," correct?

A. It was an incorrect match.

Q. In other words, if that had been a forensic sample, you would have
said the sample matched the suspect and you would have been wrong,
correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And what was the frequency when you applied your formula to that
one test that you got wrong? What was the frequency that your match
revealed, using your statistics?

A. I have no idea.

Q. It was 1 and 1.8 billion people; wasn't it, Dr. Cotton?

A. Mr. Blasier, I have not reviewed those numbers in many years and I
do not know what the number is.

Q. Would you like to review that study? It was a very rare number;
wasn't it?

A. Any RFLP match is generally a rare number. I'm sure there was a
number and I'm sure it wasn't a common one.

Q. And it was wrong, correct?

A. Well, the number was okay but the match was wrong.

Q. It doesn't come from the two samples -- didn't come from the same
person?

A. It's numbers are saying how common that pattern was that we had.
What was important was that the match was not correct.

Q. So the number says nothing about the accuracy of the test that
you're doing, does it?

A. It doesn't tell you whether that match is correct --

Q. Thank you.

A. -- No.

Q. Now, you made some changes in your procedure as a result of that
error, did you not?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what procedure did you change?

A. We changed our labeling procedure and we bought an additional piece
of equipment that allowed us to handle large samples, physically large
stains.

Q. And you were able to determine, were you not, that what happened in
that particular test is somebody mixed up a sample and you didn't
know, correct?

A. Somebody mixed up two twos which were portions of a sample, yes.

Q. And now, as a result of that error, you don't want to have that
error occur again. So you now have two people witness. Every time you
put a sample from one tube to another, you have two people witness it?

A. That was in place at the time. So that's why we changed our
labeling procedures.

Q. So there were two people looking at it?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, in 1989 you were tested again by the same organization,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that one had 50 samples, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And you made one false positive in that test as well, correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. One out of 50, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you made changes in your procedures as a result of that,
correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. What changes did you make?

A. We changed the procedure so that the DNA extraction from the
evidence samples was done at a separate time as any of the known
standards so that they were not handled for DNA extraction at the same
time.

Q. And by known samples, you're talking about such things as reference
samples from a suspect or from a victim?

A. That's exactly what I mean.

Q. That's because a reference sample from a suspect or victim is blood
that might come from the person's arm or from an autopsy that's rich
in DNA, correct?

A. Well, it didn't. It didn't have anything to do with whether it was
rich in DNA. It had to do with -- if you didn't have them out at the
same time in the same location, side by side, you couldn't mix them
up.

Q. But the problem is because you've got so much DNA in a reference
sample, very tiny amount of it, if it gets into your evidence, which
may be a small amount to start with, is going to compromise your
results; isn't it?

A. Of course.

Q. So you now don't do your reference samples at the same time and
place as your evidence, do you?

A. That's right.

Q. LAPD does it the opposite way?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant, no foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, in your first two years on those two tests,
you got two errors out of roughly 100 or 1 in 50?

A. Yes.

Q. There's a concept in DNA forensic technology known as error rates,
correct?

A. I'm sure you could apply that concept to anything, not just DNA.

Q. Sure. And error rates refers to how often does a lab make a
mistake?

A. Yes.

Q. And one way to measure that is with these kind of proficiency tests
to determine how often do you screw it up, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And in these two years, in the two tests that your lab took, you
screwed it up once every 50 times, right?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. I'm sorry?

A. You in those --

Q. Those two tests?

A. In those two tests, we have 2 errors. That comes down to a fraction
of 1 in 50. That doesn't say anything about all the other work that
was done in the lab during those two years.

Q. Right. You don't know one way or another when you made a mistake.

And you can assign a number to that, it's called an error rate. Is --
there's a lot of controversy about how you do this; isn't there?

A. Yes, there is.

Q. But if you -- if you have error rates in the neighborhood of 1 in
50 or 1 in 1000; isn't that a much more significant figure than 1 in
530 billion?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained. You can argue that to the jury.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Doctor, You use, in your procedure, you use for
PCR tests what's called a laminar flow hood, correct?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. And that is a device -- it's kind of like a work station that has a
fan that creates a wall of air that circulates from the bottom to the
top, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And it allows your sample to be inside this wall of air and you
kind of put your hands through the wall of air to work on it?

A. Right.

Q. And the purpose of that is to keep possible contaminants from the
outside coming in to your sample or contaminants from your sample
going to the outside, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's considered to be required, correct?

A. No.

Q. That -- it's good practice; isn't it?

A. It's a very good practice but there are many labs who do not have
laminar flow hoods who do perfectly acceptable work. You just have to
have another precaution to be clean.

Q. It's a procedure that you feel is necessary in your lab, correct?

A. We had the hoods and we use them. If we didn't have them, we would
have to do something else.

Q. Now, you also require, when you do testing, that you change the
paper on the bench from one sample to the next, correct?

A. Paper inside the laminar flow hood.

Q. No. I'm talking about when you were working with evidence samples
on a work bench.

A. When we're working with evidence samples on a work bench, you might
-- you would put a clean piece down and then when you're done with
that sample, you would put another piece down.

Q. That's because you know, particularly with dried blood stains, for
instance, there can be flaking. You can get very tiny flecks of
something from an evidence sample. You might not see it and you want
to protect against that contaminating the next piece of evidence.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. All irrelevant in light of the admissions.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BLASIER: It goes to the weight, Your Honor. This is a procedure
that they described.

THE COURT: Well, I'm having a little problem with respect to your
request for admissions and this course of examination. Didn't seem to
have any relevance at all.

MR. BLASIER: The procedure that the lab used doesn't have any
relevance?

THE COURT: You stipulated to the results.

MR. BLASIER: I'm talking about the procedure they used by which they
got the results.

MR. BAKER: We stipulated to the numbers, not how they got the numbers.

THE COURT: Well, your argument was that the meaning of the results are
debatable in terms of when windows of errors, et cetera; not as to the
results.

MR. BLASIER: This is a completely different area, Your Honor.

THE COURT: No. I sustained the objection.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Do you wipe down the area that you work with
samples with bleach between each sample?

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, you testified on direct that you processed
some of the control or substrate controls sent to you by LAPD,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Those substrate controls, by the way, you didn't process a
substrate control for every -- for every sample, did you?

A. No. We don't have all the substrate controls.

Q. In fact, when LAPD sent them to you, they had been separated from
the evidence samples and they didn't even send you the substrate
controls. You asked for them, correct?

A. Well, actually none of what you said is correct. We didn't ask for
them.

Q. They weren't sent at the same time, were they?

A. They weren't sent at the same time and we simply analyzed the
samples that were sent to us. We didn't request any particular
samples.

Q. Now, when you prepare bindles from samples, you know what a bindle
is?

A. The little wax paper thing.

Q. Yeah. You always put your initials on it, don't you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant, outside the scope.

THE COURT: Overruled. You can answer yes or no.

THE WITNESS: Well, nobody in my lab is preparing any bindles. We're
opening bindles, but we're not preparing them, since we're not ever
getting evidence as it comes in directly from the crime scene.

So when we open things, when we close them up, we put our initials on
the outer packaging, not on the immediate thing that the evidence is
contained in.

Q. Okay.

THE COURT: Mr --

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) The unbindled drops you got from LAPD --

THE COURT: Mr. Blasier.

MR. BLASIER: I'm sorry.

THE COURT: The scintillating examination is having an affect on our
jurors.

MR. BLASIER: Well --

THE COURT: I -- one of them. So I think we better take a recess. Okay.
Ten minutes, please.

(Recess.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court outside the
presence of the jury:)

MR. BAKER: May we approach?

THE COURT: Yes.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, juror 15 was asleep through most of this case.

THE COURT: She has -- I had -- I have to admit that.

MR. BAKER: I would appreciate it if the Court -- I know that it isn't
intentional, but when you say something in cross-examination --

THE COURT: I'm sorry. It was a joke and I apologize.

MR. BAKER: I understand. You were very attentive to her on direct and
overruled one of our objections on her direct.

It was very clear to anyone watching you that you were very attentive
to her on direct, and then to say that, I know it wasn't intentional,
but I would sure appreciate it if we could not have that.

I agree to stipulate to dismiss juror number 15 from the panel. I
think she has been asleep throughout a long period of this trial.

MR. PETROCELLI: We don't agree.

MR. BAKER: I would request the Court to remove her from the trial.

Let me just finish that. She has been asleep through major portions
and, of course, I'm glad that she got to sleep -- to sleep through the
plaintiffs' case.

MR. PETROCELLI: I would ask if Your Honor wants to say something to
her, that's fine. There's no cause to dismiss her right now. Also to
--

THE COURT: I am quite troubled with her sleeping through. She seems to
have some sort of metabolic problem that causes her to have an
inability to stay awake.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you speak to her?

THE COURT: What good is speaking to her. She missed already, quite a
bit of the -- bit of the testimony.

MR. PETROCELLI: Do we know if she missed, Your Honor. Let's see what
she's missed, question her about it.

MR. BAKER: How do you question somebody about what they missed? It's
like talking about a negative. But I'll leave that to the Court's
discretion

I think we have plenty of alternates right now and this is one who
really, if she were to move to the regular panel, I would object to it
just because she's been kind of heavy lided throughout most of the
proceedings so far.

MR. PETROCELLI: The juror in the top corner sleeps a lot too.

MR. BAKER: I noticed that.

MR. PETROCELLI: On the panel, number 7, number 7, she's sleeping quite
a bit.

MR. BREWER: Very often.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't think it's any different than that alternate.

MR. BAKER: Okay.

THE COURT: I'll keep a further eye on her. If I find that she is
attempting to sleep, I will reconsider that.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

THE COURT: Mr. Blasier if you want, I'll make an apology to you before
the jury. I didn't mean to demean your examination. I think what I
meant to say was the whole topic was --

MR. BLASIER: I would appreciate it.

THE COURT: Not exactly scintillating in terms of juror interest.

MR. LAMBERT: Can I reiterate one other point? I would ask that Mr.
Blasier be instructed to ask no more of these questions about, did the
LAPD do that or did the LAPD do this. All the objections have been
sustained. He should stop asking the questions.

THE COURT: Well, I think my rulings in that regard -- and I think it
would be helpful if you don't ask questions.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Bring the jury in.

THE BAILIFF: Jury panel walking in.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury:)

THE COURT: Ladies and gentlemen, before Mr. Blasier continues, I want
to apologize to Mr.'Blasier for referring to the examination as
scintillating and having an effect on the jury.

Numbers are a very important part of the defense in this case, from
the defense point of view. And so, the fact that the numbers tend to
be dry sometimes, and may have an affect on some of you, jurors should
not detract from the importance of the case and I should not have
referred to Mr. Blasier's examination as scintillating. But that's the
nature of the subject matter and I do apologize for that.

Now, if you get drowsy, please let me know. You know, he didn't want
to spend all of his effort in this examination to have it wasted on
you if you're not able to pay attention.

It's very important that you do pay attention. And if you find that
you're drifting off, let me know. There's no reason why you should be
embarrassed to let me know because it's important that you all pay
attention. So raise you hand or do something. Okay.

Also, I have to be looking at you and everybody else in this courtroom
is looking at you, so you know, if you -- if you feel you concentrate
by closing your eyes or something like that, have some second thoughts
about that because everybody's going to be thinking your drowsing off.
All right.

(Laughter.)

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you.

Q. Dr. Cotton, the tests that are done in forensic applications of DNA
applications are very complicated, aren't they?

A. Yes.

Q. We're just really touching the surface of a lot of this, aren't we?

A. We are.

Q. And if we wanted to get really technical, we could go on for days,
couldn't we?

A. I'm sure we could.

Q. We won't do that.

A. Okay.

THE COURT: Thank you.

(Laughter.)

MR. BLASIER: Thank me.

When you got evidence sent to you by LAPD what -- particularly the
Bundy drops, it was in the form of swatches, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. In bindles, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. None of those bindles that you got from the Bundy drops had Andrea
Mazzola's initials on them?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Not to my recollection.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Okay.

Thank you. I need a new number, please, 2185?

THE CLERK: Correct.

(The instrument herein referred to as DNA "DQ Alpha Strips" was marked
for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2185.)

Q. Doctor, the dots we haven't talked yet about. We've looked at
Autorads, but we haven't talked about -- right there for now. We
haven't really talked about what a PCR test result looks like.

Isn't it correct that with PCR test, you don't get something that
looks like an Autorad, you get something called a testing strip that
has dots on it?

A. That's correct for PM and DQ Alpha.

THE COURT: Excuse me. It was clearer when you first -- when you first
put it on.

MR. P. BAKER: Somebody touched the button.

MR. BAKER: You ought to see our family photo album.

(Laughter.)

THE COURT: Mr. Petrocelli, could you have your tech help him.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. Your Honor, bail him out, Steve.

MR. BLASIER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) We'll zoom in so you can see it better. I just
want to just, very briefly, go over how you look at results from a
PCR, DQ Alpha test. These happen to be DQ Alpha strips, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the dots, of course, they have little numbers next to them
which correspond to the alleles that you're looking for, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And again, the allele, that's just all we're talking about, is a
piece of DNA at a particular location on a chromosome, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And we get one of those from dad and one from mom?

A. Yes.

Q. And sometimes we might get the same one from mom the same one from
dad, in which case our type would be 1.1, 1.1 correct?

A. Right.

Q. In fact, Nicole Brown Simpson is a 1.1, 1.1, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So that the dots that would light up would be the ones that would
correspond to the 1.1, correct?

A. Right.

Q. And --

A. Well, and you have --

Q. There's a dot?

A. There's another dot you can't see on your blow-up there.

Q. We'll talk about that in a second, yeah. Can you back it out.
There's a 1 here too?

A. Right.

Q. So a 1.1 would light up this dot and this dot, and there's another
column at the far right that says all but 1.3 and that lights up when
you get any allele that's different from 1.3, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So 1.1, 1.1 would light up those three dots?

A. Yes.

Q. This happens to be, if we back out a little bit so Dr. Cotton can
look at this. This is a DOJDQ Alpha testing strip and it includes item
number 29.

Stop.

Let's zoom in on the number, I mean, on the label here. Okay.

See that, Doctor, LAPD number 29?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. And that's the stain that was found on the steering wheel of the
Bronco, correct?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. That Mr. Lambert asked you about?

A. Yes, that's right.

Q. And you performed a similar test to this on the same stain,
correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And I'm going to slide this over a little bit.

We can see -- let's zoom in on the 4 right there. There is a faint dot
at the 4, correct?

A. Can I come down and look at this?

Q. Sure.

A. Actually, Yes, I think I see one there.

Q. Sometime it's really hard to see these dots.

A. Well, it would actually be better if we --I were looking at the
photo itself.

Q. But your test results, the board lit up?

A. That's right.

(Referring to view screen.)

Q. Somehow, before you made it bigger.

Let's back off a little bit. That's better.

That tells you there is a 4 allele in that sample, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you ruled out Mr. Gold -- ruled out Mr. Goldman from this
sample because he is a 1.3 and there is no dot at the 1.3, correct?

A. Well, I don't know about this strip but we didn't get a dot at the
1.3.

Q. That tells you that Mr. Goldman's DNA wouldn't be there, correct,
as far as the test results?

A. We couldn't detect it, yes.

Q. Well, are you saying, Doctor --

A. Well, I'm saying exactly what you alluded to earlier. There's a
specific level of detection. And if you don't see something, doesn't
necessarily -- that just means you can't see it. So we didn't see it.
And therefore, based on what we saw, we ruled out that he was there.

Q. Are you saying, Doctor, that this test in some instances you have,
can have DNA in there that won't show-up?

A. Of course.

Q. That's not a particularly good test; is it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: This is a very good test. I can't think of any test that
you could do that doesn't have some limit to what you can detect. And
this has a limit to what you can detect, like every other DNA test
that I'm aware of.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You can have somebody else's DNA in here and not
know it from this test, correct? Small amounts?

A. That would be true of every DNA test.

Q. And would you also agree with me that from this test result on
number 29, there is a contributor to this sample that is someone other
than either of the victims or O.J. Simpson?

A. I wouldn't agree. I don't think -- I think that would be an over
statement of the data. All that you can really say is that there is
another person here and.

Q. Let me --

A. You can't say anything about who it is or isn't because the data
that tells you that another person is there, is very faint. And it's
in our test, it was below the control dot. So that tells you that it's
not necessarily a reliable result.

What that means when it's below the control dot is there could be some
other alleles there and you may or may not be seeing them. So all you
can say is there's another person. There are two people in this -- in
this DNA and --

Q. There could be three people?

A. Oh, yeah, sure. Sure.

Q. There could be four people?

A. Oh, yeah, sure. I didn't really state that well.

Q. And this result is consistent with somebody being in there that's a
type 4, 4, correct?

A. Well, that's what I'm saying is, I don't think that that's an
accurate interpretation. It's consistent with somebody being in there
who has a four. And we may -- they may be a 4, 4 or they may be a 4
something else and we may not be seeing what that something else is.
So to just say it's a second person or a another person with a 4, 4
would be an over statement of the results.

Q. So -- well, let's just look at the dots that are there for a
moment. Okay?

They're consistent with someone who's a 4, 4, right, being in that
sample?

A. That's one interpretation that you could make, yes.

Q. And that doesn't match Mr. Goldman, Ms. Brown Simpson or O.J.
Simpson, does it?

A. That's right. If that was -- if that's the scenario that there's a
person with a 4, 4, then that can't be any of those people.

Q. And there could also be a 4 -- I mean a 1.1 and a 4, couldn't
there?

A. Yes.

Q. That doesn't match any of the three people, does it?

A. It -- That's right.

Q. That would have to come from somebody unidentified?

A. Of course.

Q. Now, would you agree that there is certainly a fair amount of
subjectivity that goes into interpreting these kind of strips in
testimony of whether there are dots there or not and how strong they
are and how weak they are?

A. Yes, there is.

Q. And isn't it true that one examiner might interpret that same data
differently from the way you've interpreted it?

A. That's possible.

Q. And that's not particularly good for a forensic test, is it?

Do you prefer to have tests where the data -- where the same data is
interpreted the same way, wouldn't you?

A. You would always prefer to have your test results be consistently
interpreted but there are certainly always, with RFLP and PCR, going
to be some variation in interpretations.

Q. And the numbers 1 in 530 billion don't take that into account?

A. No. They're just the frequency group.

Q. Estimated frequency of the group?

A. Estimated frequency of the group.

Q. Doctor, I asked you to locate the polymarker testing strip for the
reference samples. Were you able to do that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Do you have Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. You have the GC locus there?

A. Yes.

Q. Let me borrow this. I'll give it back to you at the end.

Let me ask you--

Let's do it this way.

This is civil 1275.

(The instrument herein referred to as a chart entitled "Testing
Results NBS and RG Reference Samples" was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1275.)

Q. Obviously, you have to look at reference samples so you can compare
your evidence to the people, right?

A. Sure.

Q. And the reference samples that you use, supposedly come from the
people you know -- you know they come from and presumably it's a
pretty good DNA, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you wouldn't expect to see evidence of more than one person in
a reference sample, would you?

A. No.

Q. Isn't it true, that when you were -- you ran Nicole Brown Simpson's
reference sample, this is supposedly blood from her autopsy, in the GC
system you found evidence of a B allele? The B lit up, didn't it?

A. Just faintly.

Q. Thank you, Doctor?

A. I'm looking puzzled 'cause I don't -- I don't understand why you're
pointing to the chart. It doesn't --

Q. Actually, I'm only pointing to this.

As far as you're concerned, you found a faint B in her reference
sample, did you not?

A. Yes, a GC. She's a type AC and there is a very faint B.

Q. She doesn't have a B, does she?

A. No, that's --

Q. O.J. Simpson has a B, doesn't he?

A. Yes. But that's not . . .

Q. Thank you, Doctor.

MR. LAMBERT: Could she complete her answer?

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Your reference sample should be the complete
answer --

THE COURT: You can get her on redirect.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) -- Shouldn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. If everything's done properly, it shouldn't be contaminated.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, I object and ask she be allowed to answer.

THE WITNESS: There's no indication that this is not a perfectly clean
sample.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Oh. So you have evidence of somebody else's DNA in
her reference sample?

A. I don't think anybody else's DNA is in her reference sample. I
think that faint B is there because there's a fair amount of DNA in
that sample and that is a typical -- The correct term is
cross-hybridization. That's a typical thing that can be seen. When you
have a fair amount of DNA in a reference sample, you might have
another dot lighting up just faintly.

Q. Are you saying, Doctor, in that test sometimes you have a dot light
up and it isn't DNA, right?

A. I didn't say it wasn't DNA. I said it was due to
cross-hybridization.

Q. If the test is done properly, you shouldn't get
cross-hybridization, should you?

A. That's not correct.

Q. You're talking about a dot lighting up that is DNA or type of DNA
that shouldn't be there, correct?

A. What I'm saying is that the fact that there is this faint B, would
you -- would you be incorrect to immediately jump to the assumption
that there is any contamination in that sample because there are much
more common technical problems that can cause that faint B that have
nothing to do with contamination of a sample.

Q. All right.

So the dot that can show-up, that, you don't attribute to a person's
type, correct?

A. For reference sample, yes.

Q. And for any sample, you get 1.3's a lot, don't you that you say
this isn't really a real dot we're just going to --

A. No. We don't do that. We write down exactly what we see on our
records. We write down in our records, there's a faint B here. Then
you go through and interpreting that, and is that meaningful; and what
do you know about the test; and have you seen this before and has --
Is this reproducible?

You see it in other reference samples where you have a GC type AC and
you do. And so you could -- there are two causes. One is it's a --
it's an artifact of cross-hybridization and it's typically seen. And
the other explanation is what you were proposing; that is
contamination.

Those two explanations have to be considered and there is no way to
definitely tell one from the other.

Q. All right. Artifact means something appearing real that isn't,
correct?

A. That's not too bad a definition. I don't think I can come up with a
better one right this second.

Q. So that dot can be explained one of two ways. Either it's
contamination or it's a dot that appears real, but isn't?

A. Well --

Q. Right?

A. It's real. It's there and there's a real reason why that can
happen. And it's a common reason why that can happen. So the dot's
real. The color's real.

It isn't -- it's part of the fact that you're asking, you're doing a
DNA test and every DNA test does not necessarily give you an
absolutely tidy clean result every single time.

Q. And your figures that you come up with in frequencies don't take
that into account either, do they, Doctor?

A. I think I've agreed with you, many times, the frequencies only tell
you how common or rare this group of traits is.

Q. Now I want to ask you about fingernail scrapings.

You did some DNA tests on Nicole Brown Simpson fingernail scrapings,
correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. Now, fingernail scrapings, when you scrape something from under a
person's fingernails you're going to get more than just blood if
there's blood there. You're going to get skin tissue. You can get dead
cells. You can get all sorts of things, sort of biological material,
correct?

A. Sure.

Q. And that constellation of biological material all has DNA in it;
isn't -- doesn't it?

A. It's biological material, it will, yes.

Q. And your RFLP test or whatever test you run on an DNA test, doesn't
distinguish whether it's blood that you're looking at or tissue, does
it?

A. That's correct.

Q. So isn't it true, that you would always expect, when you take
scrapings under a finger -- person's fingernails and did a DNA test on
it, you would expect to see their, find their DNA under there?

A. Sure.

Q. That's not unusual at all; is it?

A. No, it's not.

Q. Now, if you found evidence of blood that -- let me rephrase that.

Red blood cells are tested for a genetic marker known as EAP, correct.

A. Yes.

Q. That's different from what you're looking at with your DNA test?

A. Correct.

Q. And if you had evidence of blood under those fingernails with an
EAP type, different from Nicole Brown Simpson, that would indicate
blood under there from a different person?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Hypothetical.

A. Yes, it could.

Q. Okay. The fact that her DNA is there from blood tissue, whatever,
is not unusual in and of itself, correct?

A. No, that -- we see that a lot.

Q. Okay.

Now, the sock stain that you testified about, that had a lot of DNA in
it, did it?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you come up with an estimate of the quantity on that? It
had over a thousand, didn't it -- thousand nanograms?

A. I know that we did an estimate. I haven't looked at that, so I
don't know how much it had. Well, besides, I don't know if we got
everything that there was.

Q. What you got had a lot, didn't it?

A. Yeah, it did.

Q. Much more than any other sample in the case, didn't it?

A. I can't answer that without going into my notes and figuring that
out.

Q. Well, I don't want you to take time to do that. Do you remember any
stain that had more DNA than that one?

A. I can't answer it, may have had the same amount as in the
Rockingham blood drop. I mean, I can't answer that without going into
my notes and doing the calculation and then telling you.

Q. Now, the Autorad we looked at had one lane for Nicole Brown Simpson
and one lane for the sock, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the lane for Nicole Brown Simpson was from reference blood?

A. Yes.

Q. You indicated that a reference sample for -- might not necessarily
be always clean, right?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Misstates the evidence.

THE COURT: I think that does. You may rephrase it.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) When you were talking about Ms. Brown Simpson's
blood before, you said that you wouldn't always necessarily expect to
have a completely clean sample, right?

A. I don't remember if I said that. What do you mean by clean?

Q. Well, the lane that's on there is from her reference sample which
is the same reference sample that we already talked about, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. That's the B allele, whatever it's caused by shows-up?

A. Yes.

Q. And the lane that's on there for the sock, that can be -- you have
no way of knowing the source of the blood on -- or how that blood got
on that sock, do you?

A. Of course, not.

Q. Okay.

And blood can be taken from a reference file and put on a piece of
cloth and wiped on a sock and you can get a test result, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence. Misstates the
evidence. Improper hypothetical.

THE COURT: Overruled. Hypothetical.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Correct?

A. So are you asking me, could someone take some blood and wipe it on
a sock and then you would get a type?

Q. Yes.

A. Sure.

Q. Or you could take some blood and wipe it on a cotton swatch and
then wipe it on a sock, couldn't you?

A. That would be harder, but, yes, you could.

Q. There are all sort of ways you could do that; aren't there?

A. Sure.

Q. You can't tell from the intensity of the lanes on that Autorad
where that blood came from, can you?

Whether it came from a reference tube or a wound, can you?

A. No, I do think you can make some conclusions about whether it came
from the reference tube, from the patterns, from the degradation in
the two patterns in that film.

Q. You said there wasn't much degradation, didn't you?

A. I said there's virtually little to no degradation.

Q. Thank you.

A. That had been made from sock.

Q. It's very clean?

A. It's very clean.

Q. Reference samples are very clean, usually, aren't they?

A. This one is not in terms of degradation.

Q. Now, I want to talk about the formula that you used to get these
big numbers called the product rule, correct?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And again, the estimates of frequencies from populations of how
frequently you might see a particular banding pattern from a
particular population, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. Now, you don't actually go out like for your 1 and 530 billion
there aren't 530 billion people in the world.

A. I don't think so.

Q. You don't go out and measure that many people, do you?

A. Obviously not.

Q. By the way, the number that you give is not a number, that's the
probability of guilt; is it?

A. Of course, not.

Q. It's not even the probability that someone other than Mr. Simpson
is the source of the stain; is it?

A. No. It's just simply how often you would expect to find this
particular group of genetic characteristics.

Q. Isn't it correctly stated that as the chance if you went out and
picked somebody in the world at random, the chance that they would
have the same pattern?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, since you can't measure everybody in the world, you have to
take a sample of people, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, there's an issue, when you're talking about comparing a band
from one part of the DNA, one allele to another allele from the same
person's DNA as to whether there's any relationship between the two,
correct?

Do you know what I'm getting at?

A. No. Try it again.

Q. Okay. Let me use analogy.

If you were concerned about trying to figure out how many people in
the Norwegian population had both blond hair and blue eyes, you could
go and count the number of people that have blue eyes and find out
what percentage that is, find out what percentage the people with
blond hair is. But it would be inappropriate to multiply those two
numbers together, wouldn't it?

A. For the two traits that you're talking about, possibly that's true.

Q. That's because there's some connection between the two?

A. That's right.

Q. And the rule that you use, it's called the product rule, and all of
these calculations assumes that there is no relationship between those
two fragments in a given person's DNA, correct?

A. Right. It means that if you have type A, that you're not anymore or
less likely to have as your second type an A or a B or a C, for that
matter or whatever.

Q. And there's been a substantial controversy among scientists in the
last five or six years about whether that's true or not with these
kinds of testings, haven't there?

A. There's been a lot of discussion about it but I think that
controversy, as you phrase it, is pretty much settled.

Q. Doctor. You've been testifying in the last five years about this
controversy, have you not?

That's primarily when you testify. It's in hearings about that
controversy; isn't it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative, irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I testified many times about this, but that's not the primary focus
of most of the testimony. But yes, of course, I've testified a number
of times.

Q. Now,

A. About that tissue.

Q. The field of discipline that we're talking about here are molecular
biology, population genetics and statistics, right, theories, the kind
of three areas that you borrow expertise from to do these
calculations?

A. That's right.

Q. And to -- so in order to use this product rule, when you're talking
about multiplying frequencies together, it doesn't work if there's a
relationship between one band on a person and another band?

A. Right. The genetic characteristics have to be inherited
independently.

Q. Okay.

A. That would be the correct term.

Q. Now, there's another thing going on here as well, is there not?

That is, that you can only sample a certain number of people by which
to get frequencies from. For instance, if you counted up in a group of
Norwegian people, how many people had blond hair and blue eyes, let
say you got a figure of 50 percent, it would not be appropriate to say
therefore, 50 percent of the Caucasian population all over the world
is going to be half blond hair, blue eyed, correct?

A. No. That might be a good figure for Norway, but it wouldn't
necessarily be a good figure for everywhere else.

Q. That's because groups of people in different locations, in
different ethnics sorts, have different characteristics, don't they?

A. Yes.

Q. And one of the major issues that has been the subject of testimony
in scientific discussion in this field is whether or not the groups
that you use to come up with these large numbers are really
representative of the whole group of people, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. And that's the issue. There is called substructure, population
substructure, correct?

A. That's one thing. That's part of that issue and the issue is more
specifically by the groups that you have representative of other
groups. For our purposes, would be -- are they representative of other
groups in the United States. We don't need to worry about the whole
world, but we do want to worry about, are they're representative of
people in the United States.

Q. Okay. Doctor, now for item number 12, where you gave us a number 1
and 1.2 billion, by the way, is that the African American data base or
do you know?

A. I don't believe so. Would you like me to just pull the result
report?

Q. Sure.

A. Yes, it's not.

Q. Okay. For African persons, what's the frequency number for that
sample?

A. 1 in 170 million.

Q. So that figure of 1 in 170 million is based on how many people that
you tested?

A. About 200.

Q. 200?

A. Yes.

Q. And for that five probe match, how many African persons were tested
at all by probes?

A. Very few.

Q. Two, correct?

A. Not sure if that's correct, but it's very few, so could be two,
could be ten, but nonetheless, all that qualifies as not very many.

Q. That's the underlying data from which you get a number from 1 in
170 million, correct?

A. Yes, it is.

MR. BLASIER: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: Anything further?

MR. LAMBERT: Yes, Your Honor.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Dr. Cotton, I'd like to touch on a few of the topics that Mr.
Blasier talked about on cross-examination.

First he talked a little bit about the fact that he tried to give you
this example of making the DNA big enough to go all the way around the
world. Remember that example?

A. Yes.

Q. It's not that big?

A. No.

Q. It's much smaller than that?

A. Yes.

Q. And of those -- I think he said 3, is it 3 billion base pairs that
are in a DNA strand?

A. 6 billion.

Q. 6 billion in the DNA strand?

A. In the whole nucleus, all the chromosomes comes to about 6 billion.
That again is an estimate.

Q. And of all that DNA, I think you testified previously that some
percentage of it is common to all of us?

A. At least 99 percent is common to all of us.

Q. So there would be no reason to test any of that DNA that's common
to all of us, would there?

A. No. That wouldn't tell you anything.

Q. So what you test is the portion of the DNA that's unique from
person to person?

A. That's right.

Q. So there's no reason to try to test this long strand of DNA, but
rather focus your tests on the portion that is unique; is that right?

A. If you're asking a question about identification, then you only
want to bother to test those portions that are different from one
person to the next.

Q. And therefore in these RFLP probes, you've been talking about where
I forget how many base pairs you said you tested in the RFLP probes,
each one of them was about how many?

A. Well, the average is going to be maybe 8 or 10,000. But even so,
even if you added up all the number of base pairs that you're testing,
you're still testing a very small amount, even of the part that's
different. But you're testing the part that's giving you an enormous
amount of information.

Q. And the tests are described, designed and focus on areas where you
can gather a lot of information about identity?

A. Yes.

Q. And these same tests, Doctor, are used medically as well?

A. Yes, they are.

Q. And for what kind of medical reasons are they used?

A. Let me give you two examples that are connected, tissue
transplantation, if somebody is looking for a kidney or a liver or a
heart. Those tests are looking at particular parts of the DNA and
those tests are generally done using PCR and not too different from
what we're talking about here.

In cases of bone marrow transplants where you have a person who's ill,
they're getting the transplant and you have a donor of the transplant,
those people may be related because they're related.

It's harder to tell them apart, even with their DNA and RFLP testing.

It's typically used to monitor bone marrow transplants to show as --
After the transplant, as that patient progresses, you can see whether
or not that patient is continuing to make cells that are from the
donor, which the -- which is the outcome that you want, or the patient
is going back to making cells from themselves, which is not the
outcome that you want.

And that's done, that monitoring is done over a period of time and
it's done using RFLP testing.

Q. So in this life or death situation of a bone marrow transplant, the
same RFLP test that you've been talking about here today are used?

A. Yes.

Q. There was also some discussion, Doctor, about using these narrow
windows to make a band match judgment. Do you recall that Mr. Blasier
asked some questions about that?

A. Well, yes. He was asking about the window that you use to call a
match and your calling it narrow. He was calling it wide. You use a
window that's appropriate for your system.

Q. And would you describe how that window system is used?

A. Because the procedure that you're using does not allow you to
figure out the exact lengths of the fragment in base pairs, that is, I
can't tell you if something is exactly five thousand on a system
that's used here. That's -- the system doesn't have that technical
capability.

If I see a band and the computer imaging system estimates that it's
5,000, it could be 5,005 or 5,010 or 4,900. And, you know, 80,
whatever. So each laboratory has to run multiple samples to assess how
much variation you see in as a matter of routine.

And then you use that window, that plus or minus figure of how much
variation you see routinely to assess how, whether two fragment size
estimates are close enough to be considered a match.

Q. Is that same system used by all DNA scientists that use the RFLP
method?

A. Every lab that I know of that's doing an RFLP testing, we're
talking about 50 or so labs, all use some kind of window to know
whether or not they're going to call a match in the same manner that
was described earlier.

Q. And is a match called when you just find a match of one band?

A. Well, you do each band individually. You compare one band with the
comparable band and the other sample and you look at those sizes and
you decide whether they're close. You have -- occasionally they're
identical, but are they close enough to be considered a match? And you
do that and then you go on, do all the bands in the pattern.

Q. And for example, in this case, you were looking at bands at five
separate genetic locations; isn't that right?

A. Yeah. There are ten bands altogether.

Q. You look at all of those bands before you declared a match?

A. Yes.

Q. And does using this system that you've described, affect in any
way, the power of the RFLP system and the results that it generates?

A. No. This is part of the RFLP system. This is -- it's something that
you have to understand in order to understand how to do the
interpretations. And if you were to ignore this and ask that every
band be identical in size, you would be ignoring an enormous amount of
data and you wouldn't be doing an appropriate scientific job.

Q. And once again, the same system is a system that's used medically
and in diagnostic areas in a lot of other areas of science besides
forensic?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, I want to touch briefly again on this question of item number
29 on the steering wheel.

First of all, Doctor, would you find it surprising if there was some
DNA that shows up generally on a steering wheel in an automobile?

A. No, I wouldn't be surprised to find that.

Q. Cause someone else could have had a cut on their hand or been
perspiring and left DNA at some other time?

A. Sure.

Q. Secondly, is it your testimony that based upon that little
Department of Justice DQ Alpha type that he showed you, that although
there are various possible combinations, as Blasier pointed out, one
scientifically possible combination is a 1.3, 4, which would match
Ronald Goldman?

A. Right. Let me be clear.

Q. Okay.

A. There's a 4 that you can see. It's very, very faint. It's below the
control dot. That means there may be another allele that you can't see
and that other allele that you can't see can be any other allele that
that system tests for; could be a 1.1, a 1.2 so and so on and so on.
And it could be a 1.3.

Q. Now, let's go to the polymarker test result that you got on Nicole
Brown Simpson's reference file.

A. Yes.

Q. You -- on that, there was a faint B that lit up at the GC cite. Am
I saying that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. In your professional opinion; is that faint B lighting up the at GC
cite a result of contamination?

A. No.

Q. What is it a result of?

A. In my opinion, it's a result of cross-hybridization.

Q. Is that something that you, as a professional DNA scientist see and
are familiar with?

A. Yes.

Q. So is it a common kind of occurrence?

A. It's a common occurrence. You can see it in our validation studies.
You can see it in work from many other laboratories. You can -- I
think it's even mentioned in the manual that comes with the test.

Q. Finally, Mr. Blasier asked you some questions about the application
of the product rule to the evidence samples in this case.

In your professional judgment was there anything at all improper about
using the product rule in this case?

A. No, there wasn't.

Q. In -- and the sample sizes that the data basis are based upon, are
those statistically proper sample sizes?

A. They are.

Q. The amount of nanograms that were found in some of the evidence
samples in the case, is it unusual to have a relatively low number of
nanograms in a crime scene evidence sample?

A. No, it's -- that's extremely common.

Q. And the PCR test is a test specifically designed to enable you to
get results on low nanograms amounts; isn't that right?

A. Right. That's the whole value of that test is that you can use that
test on samples where you cannot use any other test.

Q. And the reason that the level of nanograms may be low at a crime
scene as opposed to blood taken out of someone's arm is what, Dr.
Cotton?

A. I'm assuming that people don't intend to leave bits of themselves.

Q. And the blood found at a crime scene is usually not something that
is in a unique laboratory environment?

A. Of course, not.

MR. LAMBERT: No further questions.

RECROSS EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. All right.

Let's just talk about the one percent where there's variations. That's
60 million base pairs; isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. And you only look at extremely small percentage of that, don't you?

A. Yes that's what I just said a few minutes ago.

Q. And the 99 percent, that's the same? That's an estimate too; isn't
it?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Now, Mr. Lambert asked you a question that you only look at the
portion that is unique from person to person. That's not correct, is
it? You don't look at the portion that's unique from person to person,
do you?

A. Well, you --

Q. That's -- yes or no?

A. No, it's not. I can't answer that yes or no.

Q. The fragment that you look at, are they unique only one person has
the fragment?

A. No. No on these tests, the pieces that we're looking at are not
necessarily unique, but they are.

Q. That's what you use? Go ahead.

A. They are as a group, part of what makes someone unique.

I didn't mean to imply that a PM result for example, was unique to a
given individual and hopefully I haven't given you that impression.

Q. And now, let's talk about medical application transplants. There's
a is substantial difference between forensic use of DNA technology and
medical use; isn't there?

A. There are some differences.

Q. You don't, for transplants, you don't go and scrape something, a
piece of blood off the ground, do you, to analyze it?

A. Presumably that's not how they're getting it.

Q. You always have clean samples and you always know where they came
from, don't you?

A. Actually, you should always have clean samples, yes. And do
hospitals occasionally mix things up, yes.

Q. Okay. And that gets back to error rates, doesn't it?

A. For the hospital, yes.

Q. And errors occur much more frequently than 1 in 530 billion.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

MR. BLASIER: I'll withdraw it.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) When you're doing bone marrow transplants, you
have an unlimited amount of DNA to work with. You can do multiple
tests to see if you get the same result, correct?

A. I wouldn't say you have unlimited, but you possibly have enough to
do multiple tests.

Q. Okay. You're not estimating a frequency in a population for a bone
marrow transplant? You never do that?

A. There's no need to do that. All you need to do is make sure that
the donor and recipient have different patterns.

Q. So the whole part of this technology that generates these large
numbers is relatively unique to the forensic area; isn't it?

A. Possibly so, yes.

Q. And this technology wasn't developed in the forensic community, was
it? It was all developed in the medical and research community?

A. It was all developed in the research community.

Q. Now, you used a phrase, as long as these fragments are close enough
to be considered a match. Isn't it true, what you mean by that is
because of the measurements and precision, I can't tell you whether
they are the same or not so I'm going to allow myself a window to call
something a match when I can't really tell you it's the same, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, did the steering wheel -- Are your saying that might be DNA
from another person, some other time and not blood?

A. I'm just saying, yes, there's no way for me to know. I didn't
collect that sample, number one. So even if there was blood on that
steering wheel, could there be something under that, some other cells
under that? Sure. I don't -- it's a steering wheel. People are going
to grab onto it with their hands.

Q. That could be true for the console too, couldn't it?

A. I suppose it could be, sure.

Q. Do you have kids in a car that sneeze or bloody noses and wipe them
on the console, you're going to get their DNA there, aren't you?

A. If they do that, you would get their DNA there.

Q. O.J. Simpson and Nicole Brown Simpson's kids are going to have very
similar if not the same banding patterns as their parents?

They get half of their DNA from one, and half from the other, correct?

A. Banding patterns, they will share characteristics, but the banding
patterns wouldn't be the same as either Nicole Brown or Mr. Simpson
for the PCR tests.

The kids, theoretically, since those characteristics are not so
powerful at distinguishing one from another, could any of the kids
have as a type that ends up being the same as one or the other parent,
yes, they could.

Q. And these statistics don't work at all where you're talking about
possible sources from relatives, do they?

A. Well, you would do a different calculation.

Q. These calculations don't work for that, do they?

A. It isn't that they don't work, it's that they wouldn't be
appropriate.

Q. They don't give you an accurate answer, do they? They don't give
you an accurate estimate, do they?

A. They don't tell you anything about relatives.

Q. Okay. Let's talk about number 29, the blood on the steering wheel.
There was a substrate control taken, that is a sample taken from right
next to that blood stain, correct?

A. I believe so.

Q. Was there any DNA on that?

A. No.

Q. Isn't that an indication that what was taken in that blood stain,
that the blood in there from an unidentified third person, is in that
blood stain and wasn't there before? Wouldn't you, if it had been
there before, you'd expect to find it on the substrate control,
wouldn't you?

A. You might.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you. No further questions.

MR. LAMBERT: Nothing further.

THE COURT: You're excused through 1:30, ladies and gentlemen. Don't
talk about the case, don't form or express any opinions.

(At 11:58 A.M. a recess was taken 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
NOVEMBER 14, 1996
1:30 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. LAMBERT: Your Honor, before we call the next witness, I'd like to
move in the exhibits that I referred to with Dr. Cotton, which are
988, 989, 1034, 1035, 1036, 1037, 1038, 1041, 1043, 2184, 2185, and
1275.

MR. BLASIER: We object to the handwritten one, if that's a -- one of
those -- your handwritten drawing.

THE COURT: Which one is that?

MR. LAMBERT: The one that Mr. Blasier was, himself, writing on the
board, I object to that. It's irrelevant. It's his own testimony.

THE CLERK: 2184, that's the objection.

THE COURT: I think it was in the testimony.

Overruled. It may be received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 988 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 989 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1034 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1035 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1036 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1037 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1038 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1041 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1043 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2184 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2185 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1275 was
received in evidence.)

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

May we call our next witness?

THE COURT: Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: We call Renee Montgomery.

RENEE MONTGOMERY, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was
duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Please state and spell your name for the record.

THE WITNESS: Renee Montgomery, R-E-N-E-E, M-O-N-T-G-O-M-E-R-Y

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Ms. Montgomery, where are you employed?

A. I'm employed by the State of California, Department of Justice at
the Berkeley DNA Laboratory.

Q. And what's your position there?

A. My title is senior criminalist.

Q. And how long have you worked for the California Department of
Justice?

A. I've worked for DOJ for approximately eight years -- actually, a
little over eight years.

Q. And how long have you been working in the Department of Justice's
DNA Laboratory?

A. I've been at the Berkeley DNA Lab for -- in excess of four years.

Q. Would you tell us briefly your formal educational background.

A. Yes.

I have a bachelor of science in environmental toxicology from the
University of California at Davis.

I took courses in biochemistry environmental toxicology, biology, and
other science courses.

And after I graduated, I continued my education by taking course work
through the University of California, Berkeley Extension, through the
University of Virginia, through the University of Northern Colorado,
and through California State University, Hayward.

Q. And did any of those courses that you took have anything to do with
DNA?

A. Yes, they do.

Q. Which one?

A. All of them that I mentioned, or all of the universities that I
mentioned.

The courses at California State, Hayward. The course was genetics
which dealt with DNA.

At the University of Northern Colorado, the course was on DNA
sequencing.

At the University of Virginia, it was a six-unit graduate-level course
work; and that was on forensic DNA analysis, both practical laboratory
work and theoretical.

And through the University of California, Berkeley Extension, the
courses that are relevant have been molecular biology, two semesters,
biostatistics.

I believe those are the two courses that are relevant.

Q. Since you've been working at the Department of Justice DNA
Laboratory, have you done work in connection with the D1S80 test
there?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. When did you first begin doing that?

A. I began work on the system in June of 1993.

Q. And when did the DOJ lab first begin doing D1S80 work?

A. For case-work analysis, we began D1S80 in the spring of '94.

Q. And before doing case-work analysis, have there been studies done
in the DOJ Lab with the D1S80 technique?

A. Yes. We went over nine months examining the system.

Q. Since the DOJ Lab began using that system, has it continued to use
it to today?

A. Yes.

Q. Is it used by other labs around the country, as well?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Can you briefly describe the process Dr. Cotton already told us
about, PCR in general, and the different kinds of tests.

Perhaps you could describe the D1S80 test for us.

A. The D1S80. Actually D1S80 is a location on the genome. The D1
means, DNA 1 chromosome. So Dr. Cotton described two techniques to
you, PCR and RFLP.

Well, this process, this particular region we're looking at, is a
combination of both the PCR method and the RFLP method.

The PCR method, where we take this region, this D1S80 region, and we
make multiple copies of that particular region through PCR. Then,
using something similar to RFLP, we use electrophoresis, or we use a
gel system, where we separate the different bands based on size.

Based on molecular weight, as they described to you, with RFLP, you
can see a series of banding pattern where the heaviest bands are
closer to the top and the lighter bands -- or the smaller bands
migrate farther in a gel. And that's how the D1S80 system works.

Q. And Dr. Cotton told us how there are ways to describe, again,
between different DNA types, using a sequence difference and a length
difference. Which difference does this test work for?

A. This is using the length difference. Amplified fragment lengths,
polymorphisms, also known as -- I believe he talked about VNTR,
variable number of tandem repeats.

An example would be the box cars of a train.

Q. So by "box cars of a train," you mean if there are repeating
sequences of the AT/GC base pairs that we saw before, they can repeat
like the box cars of a train; is that what you're saying?

A. Correct.

MR. LAMBERT: Perhaps we could put this up on the Elmo here, and ask
you if it would be helpful if it was turned a little down further,
here, I think.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Is this the bottom? Are we all the way down at the
bottom?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. BLASIER: Can we have a number?

MR. PETROCELLI: 275.

MR. FOSTER: 326.

MR. PETROCELLI: Oh, sorry. 326.

MR. LAMBERT: 326.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Would you identify what this is, and perhaps
describe generally how -- again, how they're used.

A. This is a copy of a D1S80 gel, and what you can see on this gel is
a series of bands.

This is the origin at the top.

And this is where the DNA migrates to.

And you can see that there are a series of banding patterns here.

The sample at the bottom is a small S, meaning it has the small S
number of repeats.

The one at the top is the largest; it has the largest numbers of
repeat.

The samples you see with multiple bands are called composite ladders.
These are like rulers, used for comparison.

And you can see also on this gel that there has been labeling. This
was obviously put on after the gel was run.

And you can see banding patterns with the various individuals and
locations.

Q. And these banding patterns that you see on -- on this gel, are they
given a particular letter or number designation?

A. Yes, they are.

Q. So you describe a person's type as D1S80 by doing what?

A. Yes, you describe their type based on the number of repeats that
are present in the sample.

For example, on this particular sample, Mr. Simpson's, there are two
bands. They would be called a 24 and a 25. The 24 has 24 repeats of
certain bases, and the 25 has -- therefore 25 repeats.

Q. And how about for Mr. Goldman?

A. For Mr. Goldman, he has a single-banded pattern. He's a 24
homozygote. That means from his mother, he inherited a 24 repeat, and
from his father, he inherited a 24 repeat.

Q. And for Nicole Brown?

A. And for Nicole Brown, she's an 18 homozygote. Once again, that
means she has an 18 inherited from her mother and an 18 from her
father.

Q. Thank you.

Ms. Montgomery, did you some testing on this case, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And the testing did you was, you did the D1S80 test?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And who at the Department of Justice DNA Lab was in charge,
overall, of testing on this case?

A. Gary Sims was in charge of the case. He was the lead analyst.

Q. Now -- but your particular role was to do D1S80?

A. Yes.

Q. Looking at this board here, this is the result board for the Bundy
crime scene. The evidence items on the left are the LAPD evidence
items.

When the Department of Justice gets an item of evidence in to it for
study, does it put its own number on it?

A. In this case, yes, we put our own numbers.

Q. These numbers that we have up there, those are the Department of
Justice numbers where we see number 5?

A. Correct, the second column.

Q. So what I'd like to do is, just to have you go through with us your
D1S80 results on -- on these particular blood drops.

First, let's take item 47. What result did you get on that?

A. On --

Q. And I guess we actually have something up here to look at, don't
we? (Referring to board)

A. I'm having a hard time seeing it from my vantage point. I could
either step down there or --

MR. LAMBERT: Just turn it slightly, can you?

THE WITNESS: That's better, much better.

MR. GELBLUM: Exhibit 291.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Can you see it now?

A. Yes.

Q. For item number 47, what was the D1S80 result that you got?

A. From item 47, the D1S80 result was a 24, 25.

Q. And that is consistent with Mr. Simpson's D1S80 type?

A. Yes.

Q. So he is a possible source for that item of evidence; is that
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And that's consistent with the types we have up here for DQ Alpha,
that and polymarker, as well; is that right?

A. Correct.

Q. And for item number 48, did you do a D1S80 test for that?

A. Yes.

Q. What result did you get?

A. I found that result sample was a 24, 25.

Q. Comma?

A. Comma 25.

Q. For item number 50, did you do a D1S80 test?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And what was the result on that?

A. I found that to be a 24, comma, 25, which is consistent with Mr.
Simpson.

Q. And for item number 52, what result did you get on that?

A. Once again, for D1S80, I had a result of a 24, comma, 25, which is
consistent with Mr. Simpson.

Q. Okay. Now, item 115, which is a blood drop taken from the rear gate
at Bundy, did you do a D1S80 test on that one?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. What was the result that you got?

A. The result for that was a 24, comma, 25.

Q. And who was a possible source for that result?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. And is either of Nicole Brown Simpson or Ronald Goldman a possible
source for that item of evidence?

A. No. Nicole Brown could not be the source because there was no 18
allele present. And by looking at it, there is no indication of any
sample from Ronald Goldman, either, by looking at the DQ Alpha that
results.

Q. For that one, for the time being, until we saw the DQ Alpha, that
we want until we see that before we determine if he was completely
excluded?

A. Yes.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Okay.

Let's just go through the last two, number 116 from the rear gate.
There's another item of blood evidence from the rear gate and your
D1S80, results were what?

A. A 24, comma, 25.

Q. That can is consistent with whom?

A. That is consistent with Mr. Simpson.

Q. And finally, for number 117 from the rear gate, what were your
results there?

A. That was a D1S80 type 24, comma, 25. That's consistent with Mr.
Simpson.

Q. So the results that you got for these various blood drops at Bundy
were what you tested, were all consistent with Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes, they were.

Q. And the D1S80 test is it completely separate and apart fro the DQ
Alpha test?

A. Yes.

Q. And from the RFLP test?

A. Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: Why don't we do the next one.

Number 296 is the next one, Your Honor.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Rockingham Residence, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 296.)

(Counsel displays Exhibit 296 on easel.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, on this board, it looks like there's only one
D1S80 test that you did at Rockingham -- on the Rockingham results
that are listed here; is that right?

A. Correct.

Q. And which item was that?

A. That was item number -- LAPD item number 6.

Q. And what result did you get there?

A. I found a D1S80 type of a 24, comma, 25 which is consistent with
Mr. Simpson.

Q. Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: Why don't we do the next board.

The next number is number 293.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Bronco Automobile, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 293.)

(Counsel displays Exhibit 293.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, this board lists various items of evidence
that were tested from the Bronco automobile of Mr. Simpson. The first
one that seems to have a D1S80 reference is number 25.

Is that one of the items that you tested?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And what did you get on that test?

A. I found a D1S80 type of a 24, comma, 25, which is consistent with
Mr. Simpson.

Q. Okay. And how about item number 26, the driver-side floor mat?

A. On item number 26, I found a D1S80 type of a 24, comma, 25, once
again consistent with Mr. Simpson.

Q. And item 30 from the center console?

A. Item 30 of D1S80 of a 24, comma 25.

Once again, I cannot exclude Mr. Simpson as being a possible source.

Q. And item 31, this is another item from the center console. What was
your D1S80 test?

A. Item 31, I found there was a 24 and a 25 present; and I could not
exclude Mr. Simpson as being a possible source of that.

Q. And then item No. 33 slash 293 from the carpet on the driver-side
door, what was your D1S80 test result on that?

A. On that sample, I found a D1S80 type 18, comma, 18 which is
consistent with Nicole Brown, but --

Q. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

A. I'm sorry.

-- but excludes Mr. Simpson and Mr. Goldman.

Q. So the only one of these three people who could be the possible
source of that particular item is Nicole Brown; is that right?

A. Correct.

Q. And then the next item on this list, the center console, 303, what
was your result on that?

A. I found a 24 allele present, a 25 allele present, and a weaker 18
allele present.

Q. And based upon those test results, who could possibly be the
sources for those evidence items?

A. Nicole Brown could be the source; Mr. Simpson could be the source;
and also, with any 24 that's present, Mr. Goldman can also be a
source, since he's a 24 homozygote.

Q. Is that the kind of test where we need a little bit more
information before we can decide who's excluded or included?

A. Yes.

Q. And 304, another center console item, what was your result there?

A. I found a 24 allele, a 25 allele, and a weaker 18 allele.

Q. And tell us what -- would you tell us what that tells us about the
possible included persons?

A. Once again, of the three individuals, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Goldman, and
Ms. Brown, I cannot exclude any of them.

Q. Okay.

And finally on this board, item 305, another item taken from the
center console of the Bronco, what were your test results there?

A. I found a 24, a 25 allele, and a weaker 18 allele.

And once again, I cannot exclude any of the three individuals.

Q. And when you say that you found a "weaker allele," what do you mean
by that?

A. I mean that allele is less intense than the other two. For example,
24, comma, 25, that means those two alleles are darker than the 18.

Q. You mean darker on gel than we previously saw on the television?

A. Exactly.

Q. So if one of the bands is darker and another one is lighter, you
make note of that?

A. Correct.

Q. And what does that usually tell us?

A. It tells us that a mixture is present on that sample.

Q. Okay. Thank you.

Now, let's go to the next board, which is No. 300 -- no, 320. Sorry.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Rockingham Glove, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 320.)

(Counsel displays Exhibit 320.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) This shows various test results for a glove found
on Mr. Simpson's property at Rockingham.

Did you do a D1S80 test on that glove?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And I see a list from the -- in the left-hand column here --
perhaps I can point to it -- of various areas that are listed, G1
through G14.

Can you tell us what those numbers mean?

A. Yes. Those numbers are particular areas on the glove that were
sampled by Gary Sims.

Q. So Mr. Sims sampled various -- I guess 14 different areas on that
one glove?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. And then you took the samples that he had prepared and did D1S80
tests on some of them?

A. Correct.

Q. Let's just go through them quickly.

Number -- area G1 -- and this is all part of the glove; it's all part
of the same glove, I take it?

A. Yes.

Q. So area G1, what was your test result there?

A. I found an 18 allele present and a 24 allele.

I should explain at this time, show on this chart -- I should have
explained it to you earlier -- when it says 18, comma, 24 on this
chart, that does not necessarily mean that is the genome type of an
individual; that just means those are the two types that were seen on
the sample.

Q. You found an 18 allele and a 24 allele?

A. Correct.

Q. And who could possibly be excluded by that test?

A. Mr. Simpson can be excluded because his 25 allele is not present.

Q. And how about Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman?

A. They cannot be excluded.

Q. And the next one G2, what was your test result there?

A. On G2, I found an 18 allele and a 24 allele. And once again, Nicole
Brown and Mr. Goldman cannot be excluded, but Mr. Simpson can be
excluded.

Q. So for both of those two areas, it's possible, based upon your
test, that that blood came from Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman?

A. Correct.

Q. And then the area G3, what was your D1S80 test result there?

A. On G3, I found a 24, comma, 24.

Q. And who can be excluded based upon that?

A. I can exclude Nicole Brown and Mr. Simpson as being a source of
that sample.

Q. So for that particular sample, the only person who can be a
possible source of it among the three that we're talking about is Mr.
Goldman; is that right?

A. Correct.

Q. And the next item, which is G4, what were your test results there?

A. I found a 24 allele and a weaker 18 allele, indicating a mixture.

Q. And a mixture -- who would possibly be excluded by that mixture?

A. Mr. Simpson would be excluded because the 25 is not present. And
Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman could not be eliminated.

Q. So they're both possible contributors to that particular item of
evidence?

A. Correct.

Q. And in the area G9, which is the next one on our chart here, what
was your result there?

A. I found a 24 allele and 24, comma, 24, and that's consistent with
Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown. And Mr. Simpson can be excluded as a
source of that 24, comma, 24.

Q. Mr. Simpson can be excluded on that one?

A. Exactly.

Q. Because of what reason?

A. It's because a 25 allele is not present.

Q. And then item G10, what was your D1S80 result on that?

A. On G10, I found a mixture; I found a 24 allele and a weaker 25
allele.

Q. And what does that mixture tell you?

A. With that next mixture, it tells me that Nicole Brown cannot be
there, but Ronald Goldman can be a source and Mr. Simpson can be a
source.

Q. And of the three people that we're testing here, which of them
could possibly be the source of a 25 allele?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. So anytime on this chart we see a 25 allele, that cannot come from
Ronald Goldman or Nicole Brown; is that what you're saying?

A. Correct.

Q. And let's go -- I've lost track. Where am I? I think I'm on G11.

Would you give us your -- what your test results were there.

A. On G11, I found a mixture, 24 allele with a weaker 25 and 18
alleles present. And that indicates that I can't exclude any of the
three individuals as being a possible source of the mixture.

Q. Okay.

And area G12 on the glove?

A. On G12, I found a mixture. I found mainly a 24 allele, with weaker
18 allele. And that indicates that Mr. Simpson cannot be present on
that sample, or was not detected, and Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman
cannot be excluded.

Q. Okay. For these two that you've just done -- let's take the patches
off, because you told us what we can find out about those from all
sources. Is that fair?

A. Correct.

Q. And now we're down to item number G3. This is a stitching on the
wrist notch -- 13. What did I say, 3? G13, right.

What do your test results tell us about that?

A. I found that was a mixture. It was mainly a 24 allele, with weaker
25 and 18 alleles present, indicating a mixture.

I can't exclude the three individuals as being possible sources.

Q. So they could all be possible sources of this.

And finally, number G14, with a -- what does it say, the inside back
of the hand cuff edge.

What were your test results for that?

A. For some sample I found a -- mainly a 24 homozygote. There was a
possible trace 18 present, so I wasn't -- I was able to eliminate Mr.
Simpson as being the source, the main contributor. Could have -- I
could not exclude Ronald Goldman as being the main contributor. And
with that possible trace 18, it's possible that Nicole Brown could
have been present.

Q. So a trace is just a faint amount of the 18 allele?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Is that what you're saying?

So we've elicited here as possible Nicole Brown. Does that seem
accurate to you?

A. Yes.

Q. So on this glove results board, anytime your test showed a 25
allele, would it be fair to say that among the three people listed at
the top of the chart, only Mr. Simpson could have been the source of
that?

A. Yes, if there were 25 allele and the 24 present, also.

Q. Okay.

In addition to the results that we've showed you on the boards, did
you also do any testing on LAPD evidence item number 84?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And do you recall what that evidence item was?

A. Yes. Number 84, referring to my report, was the fingernail
scrapings.

Q. Fingernail scrapings from whom?

A. From Nicole Brown.

Q. Did the Department of Justice actually receive the so-called
fingernail kit to do its tests with?

A. Gary Sims received those, yes.

Q. And he then obtained the evidence sample for you to do your test
on?

A. Correct. He extracted the DNA.

Q. And what were your test results on item number 84?

A. On 84, multiple samples were run.

And I'll refer to my notes on this.

The right-hand scrapings were analyzed; the left-hand scrapings were
analyzed. And the right-hand clippings were analyzed.

And all of the results by D1S80 were an 18 homozygote, indicating that
Nicole Brown could not be excluded as being the source of that sample.

Q. And in all of those tests that you ran on the fingernail scrapings,
right hand, left hand, and so on, did you find any alleles other than
18 in any of those?

A. No.

Q. I'd like to ask you now about some of the control items.

Did you test any substrate control items in this case?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. First, taking the results from Bundy, do you know which of the
control items from Bundy you tested?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Can you just list them for us?

A. Yes. I'm referring to a list that I have.

They are LAPD number 47, LAPD number 48, LAPD number 50, LAPD number
52, LAPD 115, LAPD 116, and LAPD 117. And those are samples all
relating to the Bundy area.

Q. And as to evidence item 47, the control for that is -- this is a
substrate control for that evidence item that we're talking about?

A. Yes, these are all substrate controls that I'm referring to.

Q. So your test results for evidence item 47 control, what did you get
in that test?

A. I found no DNA was present; therefore, there were no results.

Q. And how about for evidence item 48 control?

A. Once again, there was no DNA present.

Q. And evidence item 50 control?

A. No DNA was present.

Q. And evidence item 52 control?

A. No DNA was present there.

Q. How about evidence item 115 control?

A. No DNA was present.

Q. And evidence item 116 control?

A. No DNA was present.

Q. And finally, evidence item 117 control?

A. No DNA was present there.

Q. Did you also test some of the control items from the Bronco
automobile?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Can you list for us the control items tested on the Bronco
automobile?

A. Those are LAPD items 25, 26, 30, 31, 293, 303, 304, and 305.

Q. And we'll go through them one at a time.

Perhaps I'll just ask you what your results were on your tests for the
controls for all of those evidence items.

A. I did not find any DNA present on any of those samples.

Q. So all of the control samples you tested, to the Bundy blood drops
and the Bronco evidence, all tested negative for any DNA; is that
right?

A. Correct.

MR. LAMBERT: I have no further questions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Cross.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. For all of that list that you just gave us, where you said there
was no --

MR. LAMBERT: I think I forgot one board. Can I ask one more question
about it?

THE COURT: All right.

MR. LAMBERT: I'm sorry. It's number 297.

I forgot about the results.

(The instrument herein described as Chart entitled Results of DNA
analysis, Rockingham Socks, was admitted into evidence as Plaintiff's
Exhibit No. 297)

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Can you see that, this overhang?

A. Yes.

Q. These are the results for the Rockingham socks. And I'll just ask
you to go through them fairly quickly for us

Item number 13 up at the top there, what was your D1S80 result on
that?

A. Item number 13 is the socks, so the subnumber would be DOJ DNA
42A-1. And I found a D1S80 type of an 18, 18, which is consistent with
Nicole Brown.

Q. And how about for the area that has DOJ number 42A-2, which we call
13A on the LAPD list, what was your result there?

A. Yes. The D1S80 type was a 24, comma, 25, which is consistent with
Mr. Simpson.

Q. Okay. And for DNA number 42A-3, the DOJ number, what was your
result there?

A. The D1S80 type was a 24, comma, 25, which is, once again,
consistent with Mr. Simpson.

Q. And the area 42A-4 on the sock, the toe region, what is your result
there?

A. The D1S80 type was a 24, comma, 25, once again, consistent with Mr.
Simpson.

Q. And DNA number 42B-1, what was your D1S80 result?

A. The D1S80 type was a 18, comma, 18. That's consistent with Nicole
Brown.

Q. And finally, the last one, 42B-2, your result there?

A. D1S80 type 18, 18, which is consistent with Nicole Brown.

Q. Thank you.

MR. LAMBERT: I am now done, Your Honor.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Ms. Montgomery, when you gave that list of items
that there was no DNA present, isn't it more accurate to say that
there was no DNA detected by that test?

A. Correct.

Q. It doesn't mean there's no DNA there, does it?

There's a certain level of sensitivity to the test, isn't there?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, how much time did you spend preparing to assist the plaintiffs
in this case?

A. Approximately 16 hours, two days, maybe.

Q. About two days.

And how much have you charged the plaintiffs for that?

A. Nothing. I assume the State of California is getting paid by the
plaintiffs. I'm getting paid.

Q. Do you know that?

A. Yes, they will be getting paid.

Q. At what rate?

A. I don't know.

Q. In your preparation, did you ever actually go over a typed --
pretyped answer -- questions and answers with Mr. Lambert?

A. We reviewed some questions, yes.

Q. They were all a script of questions right?

A. There were some questions, yes.

Q. Typed out?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you have the list of questions with you?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Now, when you did the tests, did the D1S80 test in this -- your lab
had only been using this system in case work for a few months?

A. I believe we had been using it for about four months, I'd say.

Q. Of all the tests we've talked about here this morning, it's the
newest, is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. And were you here this morning to hear Dr. Cotton?

A. No, I was not.

Q. Okay.

Between polymarker DQ Alpha and RFLP and D1S80, D1S80 is the newest?

A. Oh, no, no; I would not say that.

In our laboratory, D1S80 came online before polymarker did.

Q. I stand corrected.

Polymarker is a pretty new system, too, is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, the D1S80 system is not nearly as discriminating as the
RFLP system?

A. That is correct.

Q. And in fact, in the D1S80 system, the 18 allele and the 24 allele
are the most common within a population, correct?

A. Yes. Most individuals are the 18 or 24 being present in a genotype.
It's common.

Q. What percentage of the Caucasian population has an 18 allele,
roughly?

A. Approximately 30 percent.

Q. Okay.

A. But that --

Q. How about 24?

A. We should clarify that.

Q. Well, Mr. Lambert can clarify if he likes.

24, how common is that?

A. Approximately 30 percent of the population would have one other
allele as a 24.

Q. Thank you.

And between Nicole Brown Simpson and O.J. Simpson, there are three
D1S80 alleles, the 18, the 24, and the 25, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And their children would have to have one of those three alleles or
two of them, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. They couldn't have any allele other than 18, 24, 25, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And of course, this system is not discriminating enough to allow
you to separate people that have the same alleles, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And I notice you didn't give us any statistics here. That's because
this is not a very discriminating system, correct?

A. No.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative; assumes facts not in evidence.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) What are shadow bands?

A. Shadow bands?

Q. Yes.

A. Shadow bands are bands that would run below the primary band, an
artifact of the gel system.

Q. So you can have bands show up that aren't DNA, correct?

A. You would have artifactual bands, correct.

Q. "Artifact" means something that appears real but isn't, correct?

A. "Artifact" would be something that was not an actually -- an actual
band, but it was --

Q. But it shows up on the Autorad --

MR. LAMBERT: Object to not letting her answer the question completely.

MR. BLASIER: I'm sorry. Go ahead.

THE WITNESS: That would show up on a gel.

But for it to be determined by seeing it in your composite ladders.

Q. You talked about with some of these tests as possible traces.

Are you saying that you can -- well, we just said "you." When you talk
about a shadow band and there's a certain amount of subjectivity
involved in the interpretation of these results as there is with DQ
Alpha and polymarker, is there not?

A. No.

Q. No subjectivity at all?

A. It's fairly -- it's an objective test. The subjectivity would come
into play by experience. Experience on -- I wouldn't call it
subjectivity.

Q. Some of these things are subject to interpretation, aren't they?

A. Correct. One must interpret.

Q. And you use terms such as "hints" and "traces" in your lab, do you
not?

A. Yes.

Q. And the difference between a hint and a trace is what?

A. A hint is a possible banding pattern; there's something that would
be seen in the gel, but you don't feel confident that it is actually a
band.

A trace would be a very faint band that you feel confident is a band.

Q. And it takes subjective judgments to decide whether something is a
hint or a trace, doesn't it?

A. It takes experience to determine if something is a hint or a trace.

Q. Are there any standards at all that are used to determine the
difference between a hint and a trace?

A. No.

Q. And when you call something a hint, you're saying I see a band
there, but we're going to say it's not real, right?

A. We're saying that there is a possible band present.

Q. We're not going to call it DNA, right?

A. That we don't feel comfortable calling it a band, correct.

Q. And a trace is where there's something that looks like a band
there, and we'll call it DNA, right?

A. It is a band; it's not something that appears to be a band.

Q. It's a very light band, isn't it?

A. Correct.

Q. Just like a hint, isn't it?

A. Excuse me?

Q. We're talking about very light bands, aren't we?

A. It's a faint band.

Q. Sometimes you call them DNA, sometimes you don't, right?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Answer the question.

THE WITNESS: No. If there is a band present, you call it a band.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) If you're not sure if the band is present, if it's
a faint indication of some activity in a lane, it's not called a band
which can mean the difference between an exclusion and an inclusion,
can it not, when you call it a hint or a trace, can't it?

A. Yes, it can.

Q. Thank you.

How many items of evidence did you test using the D1S80 system?

A. I would have to go through and count.

Q. Can you give me a rough count?

A. The number?

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, perhaps we can take a break to give her a
chance.

THE COURT: Going to be a while?

THE WITNESS: No.

Oh, in excess of 50 samples.

MR. BLASIER: Okay.

And can we show it on the Elmo here, please.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 326.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) And you do a lot of those samples in the same
runs, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And you tested 23 different stains from the clothing of the victims,
did you not?

A. If that's the number you counted, I'll assume that's the correct
number, unless you'd like me to count them.

Q. You did quite a few?

A. Correct.

Q. Remember we discussed this in the criminal case, as well, don't
you?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you review your criminal testimony in preparation for your
testimony here?

A. Briefly, yes.

Q. Okay.

And is it not true that 13 of the stains that you found on Ron
Goldman's clothes were consistent with blood from Nicole Brown
Simpson?

A. Once again, I'll assume the number is correct, unless you want me
to go through and count them.

But yes, I found blood that was -- or I found D1S80 types. That was
consistent with Nicole Brown on Ron Goldman's clothes.

Q. I'm sorry. And inconsistent with O.J. Simpson?

A. Correct.

Q. You found three stains on Nicole Brown Simpson's dress that were
consistent with Ronald Goldman, correct?

A. Once again, I'll assume the number is correct.

But yes, I found a D1S80 type that was consistent with Ronald Goldman
and inconsistent with Mr. Simpson.

Q. Now, you have found nothing on either victim's clothing consistent
with Mr. Simpson; isn't that correct?

A. Correct.

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me, Mr. Blasier. Does that have a number?

MR. BLASIER: 326.

Your Honor, I wonder if we can take a break. I have to get some
exhibits.

THE COURT: Take ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. BLASIER: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Ms. Montgomery, just a couple of quick questions.

When you were asked about the fingernail scrapings, item 84, again,
you're looking at DNA and you're not looking at red blood cells,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you have no way of knowing whether the 18, 18 or the DNA that
you collected came from those scrapings, came from tissue or blood or
both?

A. Correct.

Q. And an 18, 18 -- 18 is a very common allele, correct?

A. Yes. It occurs in the 18 alone, as we discussed earlier.

Q. Now, the glove. How many different stains did you check on the
glove?

A. I --

Q. Do you have that in front of you?

A. I have to refer to --

Q. The number is G13. Does that mean there were 13 samples taken?

A. There were less than 13 samples analyzed by D1S80.

Q. Okay. D1S80.

Okay. And now, I wanted to ask you a hypothetical question:

If somebody was wearing a right-hand glove and had a bloody left hand,
and you used their bloody left hand to take off the right-hand glove,
you would expect to find their glove, in the finger area of the glove
--

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence. Argumentative.

THE COURT: It's a hypothetical question that doesn't go to her field
of expertise. I think it's an argument you can make to the jury.

MR. BLASIER: Let's me ask it this way:

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You didn't find any indication of blood consistent
with Mr. Simpson in the finger area of the right-hand glove, did you?

A. Correct.

Q. And you didn't find any blood consistent with Mr. Simpson in the
palm area of the right-hand glove, did you?

A. I'd have to refer to the notes on that one.

Q. Go ahead.

(Witness reviews documents.)

A. Correct.

Q. The three very small amounts that you found that could have come
from O.J. Simpson were all in the wrist area, around the wrist notch
of the right glove, correct?

A. That is correct.

Q. And that's the area where there are some initials written, CY for
Colin Yamauchi?

A. I don't know.

Q. You remember the initials being down there?

A. No; I didn't examine the glove.

Q. Okay.

Are you aware of that glove -- the fact that that glove was examined
at LAPD long before the samples came to you guys?

A. I would assume it was, since it came to our laboratory.

Q. In fact, all of the evidence that got to your laboratory started
out at LAPD?

A. I believe so.

Q. And your tests can be no more reliable than the quality of the
evidence that they send you; isn't that correct?

A. Correct.

MR. BLASIER: No further questions.

MR. LAMBERT: Only one or two, Your Honor.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Ms. Montgomery, Mr. Blasier asked you some
questions about trace and hint of bands on his cross-examination.

Could you explain to us what the difference between those two is?

A. Yes. A hint is something that, in our interpretation, we wouldn't
place any significance on it; we're not confident that it exists.

A trace is a band that, well, we're confident the band exits, but the
actual genotype, the whole profile of that sample, cannot be
determined, meaning we see the particular band there, but yet we
cannot say what the full profile of that banding pattern is.

Q. And you wouldn't classify something that is a band unless you were
confident that it was a band; is that right?

A. Correct.

MR. LAMBERT: No further questions.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. That relates to the experience of the examiner, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And when you examined these samples, how much experience did you
have with this system?

A. I had approximately a year of experience with it, nine months being
full-time.

Q. How much in case work?

A. Approximately four months of case work.

Q. How many cases? It's less than 20, wasn't it, or about 20?

A. Approximately 20 cases at that time.

Q. That's all.

FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Since that time, have you continued to work on D1S80?

A. Yes.

Q. Have you looked at your results since then, in light of your more
recent experience?

A. Yes.

Q. Would you reinterpret any of those results?

A. No.

Q. Thank you.

MR. BLASIER: Nothing further.

THE COURT: Thank you.

You're excused.

(Witness excused.)

MR. LAMBERT: Could I move into evidence, Your Honor, one exhibit, 326.

MR. BLASIER: No objection.

THE COURT: Received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 326 was
received in evidence.)

MR. LAMBERT: Plaintiff calls Gary Sims, Your Honor.

THE CLERK: Please raise right hand.

GARY ALAN SIMS, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: please be seated. And, sir, if you would, please state and
spell your name for the record.

THE WITNESS: My name is Gary Alan Sims, G-A-R-Y, A-L-A-N, S-I-M-S.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Good afternoon, Mr. Sims.

A. Good afternoon.

Q. What is your occupation?

A. I am employed as a criminalist supervisor by the California
Department of Justice, DNA Laboratory, in Berkeley.

Q. And as a general proposition, what does the Department of Justice
DNA Lab do?

A. The Department of Justice DNA Lab analyzes samples that are
generally submitted to us by other forensic laboratories who first
test samples for blood, semen, that sort of thing, biological
material, and then they send it to us because we're a specialty lab
doing DNA -- forensic DNA testing.

Q. And how long has the DOJ DNA Lab been doing forensic DNA testing?

A. We've been doing case work since 1992.

Q. And when you do forensic DNA testing, do sometimes your test result
in a person who is suspected of being in a crime, being excluded as a
suspect?

A. They often do.

Q. And sometimes it results in inclusions?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you have any idea as to how frequently the work that you do
actually exonerates somebody from being a suspect?

A. Our figure is somewhere on the order of about 20, 25 percent of the
time, something like that.

Q. Have -- do you have a formal educational background that led to you
being in this field, sir?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Would you describe that for us, please.

A. Yes.

My education began at the University of California at Berkeley, where
I graduated with a bachelor of science degree in criminalistics in
1975.

At that, or shortly after the time, I did some graduate work in
criminalistics at UC Berkeley, and I also did graduate work in
criminalistics at California State University, Los Angeles.

In 1994, I went back to UC Berkeley to complete my graduate education,
and I now hold a master's degree in public health, with a forensic
science specialty.

Also, as part of my formal education, because of the need to update my
education with regard to molecular biology and DNA techniques, I went
back and took classes, for example, in genetic molecular biology,
recombinant DNA technology, that sort of thing.

MR. LAMBERT: By the way, let me mark as the next exhibit in order --
give Mr. Blasier a copy -- a copy of your curriculum vitae, and Ask
you to identify that, please.

What number is this?

THE CLERK: 2186.

MR. LAMBERT: 2186.

(The instrument herein referred to as Curriculum Vitae of Gary Alan
Sims was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2186.)

THE WITNESS: Yes, which is a current copy of my C.V.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) When you graduated from Berkeley with your
bachelor's degree, did you obtain any honors?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. What was that?

A. Graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Berkeley.

Q. Thank you, sir.

After graduating with your degree in criminalistics, what kind of
employment did you have?

A. I first began my career at the Department of Chief Medical
Examiner, Coroner, here in Los Angeles County, where I worked in the
laboratories there from 1976 until 1979, looking at blood and semen
evidence in cases of sexual assault, homicides that sort of thing.

Then, from 1979 to 1980, I went to work for the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department, where I worked in their crime laboratory. And I
was specifically assigned to the serology section, looking at blood
and semen and other biological evidence there.

Then, from 1980 until 1990, I worked for the Institute of Forensic
Sciences Criminalistics Laboratory, which is a private crime
laboratory in Oakland, California, directed by Charles Morton in that
laboratory. Since it's a private laboratory, we analyzed both evidence
in defense and prosecution cases.

Then, in 1990, I went to work for the Department of Justice in the DNA
Laboratory. And that's where I've been to date.

Q. Your work at the DNA laboratory, does it involve actual hands-on
work on DNA testing?

A. Yes.

Q. On case work kinds of things?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, did you do, yourself, some DNA testing in this case?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. How many samples altogether did the California Department of
Justice evidence samples -- that is, sample in this case?

A. Something like 108 samples.

Q. Is that a small, normal, or large number of samples for a
particular case?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) In a normal criminal investigation, are the items
of blood evidence usually much fewer in number than you had in this
case?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: In our laboratory, we would typically analyze ten samples
in a case.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) So in this case, there was a very substantial
amount of evidence to analyze?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you did these tests at the DOJ Lab On the blood evidence,
was there anyone not part of the Department of Justice present during
that testing?

A. Yes.

Q. And who was that?

A. The individual who was present in our laboratory for virtually all
of the opening of the evidence as we received it from LAPD, and who
was also present for several of the test readings, and who was -- in
fact, had a standing invitation to any of the other evidence
examinations -- was Dr. Edward Blake, a defense consultant from
Forensic Science Associates.

Q. Dr. Blake was there for much of your testing on behalf of Mr.
Simpson?

A. Yes. He was particularly there for the documentation, the opening
of the evidence, that sort of thing, the initial examinations.

He was also present for some of the actual testing.

Q. And Dr. Blake, himself, does he have his own DNA Lab?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: He is a partner in a laboratory that does DNA work, yes.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) And his own laboratory, that is, Dr. Blake's
laboratory, is capable of doing testing of DNA at that lab?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: I'll sustain that.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Were some of the evidence samples that you took in
this case that -- were portions of them specifically set aside so that
the defense could do testing on their own if they wanted to?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

May we approach?

THE COURT: You may.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

MR. BLASIER: I object to this line of questioning.

The plaintiffs tried to take Dr. Blake's deposition, and the Court
ruled that they could not do so because he was one of the consultants,
not a witness. He is not an expert that we're calling to testify.

The allegation that we did testing or didn't test is improper. We have
no burden to do any testimony, since there is no burden.

THE COURT: Wait a minute. Go back about a paragraph.

MR. BLASIER: Well, the plaintiffs attempted to take Dr. Blake's
deposition in this case, and the Court -- not this Court, but the
Court that was handling law and motion -- ruled that they could not do
so because Dr. Blake was a consultant and was not a testifying expert
for the defense.

And the implication that we did testing or didn't do testing is an
improper one to raise. There's no burden on us to do any testing.

And I object to this line of inquiry based on that.

MR. LAMBERT: It has nothing to do with whether Dr. Blake is going to
-- whether Dr. Blake is going to be a witness or not.

The point is, we're entitled to show to the jury that they had
evidence available to test; they had experts available to do the
testing. If they chose not to do the tests or if they did test, we
don't know about it, and choose not to present the results, the jury
is entitled to hear that evidence.

There's a specific evidence rule that says that the jury's entitled to
make whatever inference they choose to draw from the defendant not
presenting evidence that is available to them to present.

If they want to have -- this isn't a criminal case where there's some
kind of a constitutional problem with presenting this evidence. In a
civil case, it's clearly relevant and probative, and the jury should
hear that they choose not to do testing.

That may be what inferences may be drawn from that.

MR. BLASIER: I disagree with Mr. Lambert. Correct, we can do away with
the ability to have a consultant. It is not available to the other
side. I don't think that's appropriate. It's irrelevant; it's
prejudicial. I object under 352.

MR. LAMBERT: This isn't a consultant; this is somebody in the lab,
watching everything being done, cutting slices, so it could be
available for further tests if somebody wanted to do further testing.
It's not a -- behind the scenes; it's something that's right there
available to do it if they want to do it.

MR. BLASIER: The Court already ruled he was a consultant.

MR. LAMBERT: Only for purposes of me taking his deposition.

If you choose not to call him, that's fine.

THE COURT: Irrelevant. Overruled.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. LAMBERT: Would you read that back, please.

(Record read.)

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) And, in fact, Dr. Blake is one of the leading
developers of the PCR techniques?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: With regard to forensic technology yes.

MR. LAMBERT: This is 291.

Q. Now, Mr. Sims, Dr. Cotton has previously put on this board some
frequency results based upon her DQ Alpha and polymarker test.

You see her frequencies up there?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the Department of Justice also did a DQ Alpha test on these
particular samples, didn't it?

A. On number 46, yes.

Q. Your number 5, yeah?

A. Yes.

Q. And what result did you get?

A. The DQ Alpha result was 1.1, 1.2.

Q. That's the same result that Cellmark got?

A. Yes.

Q. In addition, however, the Department of Justice did a D1S80 test
which Ms. Montgomery just testified to, and the results of that test
are up on the board there; see that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Now, taking that additional test into account, that is, taking it
into account, the D1S80 test in addition to the DQ Alpha test and a
polymarker test, what would be the frequency of all three of those
tests combined?

A. The range -- I'll give it as a range -- again, is one in 240,000 to
one in 2.2 million.

Q. I'd ask you then to -- if you could, step down. Make sure we get
the right end here.

MR. LAMBERT: Steve, you can help by erasing here, right there. And
we'll ask you, Mr. Sims, to put the frequency in there.

(Witness writes on Plaintiffs' Exhibit 291, entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Bundy Crime Scene.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) So, Mr. Sims, taking these three test results, the
two from Cellmark and the one from the Department of Justice all into
account, you would expect to find those DNA patterns in only one of
240,000 to one in 2.2 million people; is that right?

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, I'm going to object to erasing data from this
exhibit which is now in evidence. He can put it in beside it, but I
think he just erased something from the top.

MR. LAMBERT: I haven't moved this in; I'm developing this exhibit as
I'm going along. I'll move it in when it's done.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. BLASIER: I object to it being erased.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. BLASIER: I object to it being erased.

THE COURT: Why?

MR. BLASIER: Because it changes the exhibit.

THE COURT: He's changing the exhibit as he goes along.

MR. BLASIER: He's taking things off.

There's nothing wrong with it.

THE COURT: It's not an exhibit.

THE CLERK: It's been marked.

MR. BLASIER: I thought it was offered.

MR. LAMBERT: It hasn't been offered, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: Let's go down to the next item number. Item number 48.
Again, this is --

THE COURT: Excuse me. If you want to preserve it, why don't you go up
there and make an overlay and write it down on your overlay? We'll
give you that opportunity right now.

MR. BLASIER: I have my own notes.

I'm assuming they're going to move that in.

THE COURT: Well, you can -- I've used an overlay before. I would like
to not deprive you of the opportunity of showing the exhibit as it
existed prior to that time that this witness changed it. So if you
want to do that, you may.

MR. BLASIER: That's fine. We'll let them do it the way they want.

MR. LAMBERT: May I proceed, Your Honor?

THE COURT: All right.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Going now to item number 48, again, this is an
item where the Department of Justice did a DQ Alpha test?

A. Yes, we did DQ Alpha and D1S80 on that item.

Q. The DQ Alpha test result on that item was what?

A. 1.1, 1.2.

Q. That's the same result that Cellmark got?

A. Yes.

Q. And again, you did a D1S80 test which Ms. Montgomery already
testified to.

Can you put in the frequency, taking that test into account?

A. Okay.

(Witness writes on Plaintiffs' Exhibit 291.)

THE WITNESS: The frequency is the same as 47: It's 1 in 240,000 to 1
in 2.2 million.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Okay.

Now, on item number 49, that's not an item that the Department of
Justice did any tests on?

A. We did not do any typing.

Q. So the frequencies on those numbers should stay the same?

A. That's correct.

Q. Let's take a look at item number 50.

It appears that the results you got there are the same as 47 and 48;
is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You got the same DQ Alpha test result as Cellmark?

A. That's correct.

Q. Would you please change that frequency to reflect the D1S80
numbers.

(Witness writes on Exhibit 291.)

THE WITNESS: Again, this will be 1 in 240,000 to 1 in 2.2 million.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) And now, finally, on item number 42, that is
finally -- 52, finally, on the Bundy list of items again, you have
both DQ Alpha and D1S80 results on that item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. The DQ Alpha results are the same as Cellmark's?

A. Yes; it's 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Can you put in the frequency in the top panel there for the PCR
base test.

(The witness complies.)

A. Again, it's one in 240,000 to one in 2.2 million.

Q. And then, now dropping down to item No. 115, which is from the rear
gate of Bundy, you did your own DQ Alpha test there; is that right?

A. Yes, we did DQ Alpha on that and also D1S80.

Q. And your DQ Alpha test resulted in?

A. Type 1.1, 1.2.

Q. And the D1S80 Ms. Montgomery testified was 24, 25, those results,
the DQ Alpha results and the D1S80 results together, who could be the
possible source of those test results from among Mr. Simpson, Nicole,
and Ronald Goldman?

A. Only Mr. Simpson.

Q. Have you calculated the frequency for those two tests, the D1S80
and the DQ Alpha?

A. Yes.

Q. Would you put that in, please.

A. The results for those two tests would be 1 in 520 to 1 in 1,400.

Q. Now, the reason that the numbers for item number 115 are different
than, say, item number 52, is that explained by the fact that the more
genetic markers that you're able to test, the more the frequency can
become less common?

A. Yes.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) What's the explanation of the difference between
the 115 and, say, number 48?

A. Basically, the more genetic information you're getting, the more
types you're looking at, then the rarer that whole profile becomes.

Q. Let's take a look at item number 116, the rear gate. That appears
to be the same as 115?

A. That's correct.

Q. Would that be right? So the numbers and Mr. Simpson would be the
same for that?

A. That's correct.

Q. Would you please put in the numbers for us there.

A. Again, it's 1 in 520 to one in 1,400.

Q. Now, finally, on this board we have item number 117 the rear gate.

From the rear gate, I see you have both a DQ Alpha and RFLP results;
is that right, sir?

A. That's correct. We did DQ Alpha, D1S80 and we also did a nine-probe
match for the rear-gate sample.

Q. Would you explain what you mean by "nine-probe match?"

A. When doing RFLP, we looked at nine different loci. In other words,
we produced nine different Autorads at different sides of genetic
information take's all nine matched Mr. Simpson's types.

Q. So would you put the frequency in for the RFLP calculation for this
item number 117.

A. Yes.

The range on the RFLP was 1 in 57 billion, with a B, to one in 150
billion.

Q. That last item, the item from the rear gate, because you got a
nine-probe match on that item, the frequency, would you call that a
rare frequency?

A. Yes; this would be a rare event.

Q. And the fact that you were able to get an RFLP result off of that
particular evidence item, why could you get it off that, why not off
of 115 or 116?

A. There was less DNA recovered in those stains, 115 and 116. 117 had
about a little over 100 nanograms, which is sufficient for an RFLP.

Q. And was that particular evidence item degraded or undegraded?

Do you recall what the state of degradation was?

A. There was only slight degradation indicated in that sample.

Q. And is there a reason why an evidence sample that's found in one
location, say on a gate as opposed to another location, say on the
ground, may be more or less degraded?

A. Yes. It's certainly important how -- what the micro environment is
where a stain occurs.

For example, if it occurs on a walkway, where there's a lot of soil
and that sort of thing, one may expect to see some differences from a
sample that's not in contact with as much dirt and soil, debris, that
sort of thing. The collection and processing can make a difference
too.

Q. So the fact that there's more DNA on an evidence item found up on a
gate, as opposed to something on the ground, is that a surprising
result, from your perspective?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Why don't we take the next board. This will be number 296.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Rockingham Residence, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 296.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, this board lists four different evidence
items from the -- collected at Rockingham. The first one, number 6, is
from the Rockingham driveway.

Did you do any DQ Alpha tests on that evidence item?

A. Yes, our laboratory test did that for DQ Alpha and D1S80.

Q. And Ms. Montgomery testified to the D1S80 result. What are the DQ
Alpha results?

A. 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Who would be the possible source among the three we're looking at
here, be a possible source for those evidence items?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. And could you once again put the frequency for those two tests in.

A. Frequency for that result would be -- the range would be one in 520
to 1 in 1,400.

Q. Okay. I think that's the only one we have on this, chart. So let's
move to the next one, which is number 293.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Bronco Automobile, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 293.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, there's a lot of evidence items to go through
on this.

The Department of Justice tested a lot of samples from the Bronco
automobile?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. Let's start with number 24 from the instrument panel. Did you do a
DQ Alpha test on that?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what was the result?

A. On number 24, which was our item number 15, the DQ Alpha type was
1.1, 1.2.

Q. That's consistent with who?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. And could you put the frequency in for that one test for Mr.
Simpson on item number 24.

A. Yes, I can. This is just a DQ Alpha result, so it's one in 12, to
one in 40, is the range.

Q. And for these items here, where we just have D1S80 results 25 and
26, numbers 25 and 26, are those both consistent with Mr. Simpson as a
possible source, as well?

A. Yes, they are.

Q. And did you calculate what the frequency would be for those two?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Would you please do so.

A. For the number 25, that range would be -- check for a second.

That's where we have a type 1.1, 1.2, Also a 24, 25 result, so the
range would be 1 in 520 to 1 in 1,400. Where we have just the D1S80
result of type 24, 25, that would be one in 29, to one in 48.

Q. And then while we're here, let's take a look at item number 30 from
the center console.

Did you do a DQ Alpha test on that item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what was the result?

A. That was type 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Tallying the DNA and D1S80 results for that type, who is a possible
source for that particular item?

A. That would be Mr. Simpson.

Q. And what would the frequency for that item be?

A. Again, this is where we have the DQ Alpha and the D1S80, it would
be one in 520 to one in 1400 or 1,400.

Q. Evidence item number 31, did you do a DQ Alpha test on that?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what results did you obtain?

A. That -- excuse me. The sample No. 31, which is our 18, we obtained
a mixture result. The DQ Alpha indicated the type 1.1, 1.2, along with
the weaker typing of 1.3, comma, 4.

Q. And because of that mixture, who would the possible sources be of
that evidence item?

A. The possible sources would be Mr. Simpson, and also Ronald Goldman.

Q. And then let's drop down to -- now to number 34.

The Department of Justice do a DQ Alpha test on that item?

A. Yes; that was our item number 20. And we did just the DQ Alpha test
on that.

The result was 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Which is, again, consistent with who?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. Would you put the frequency in for that item?

A. This is DQ Alpha only. It's one in 12 to one in 40, type 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Let's drop down to item number 303, the center console.

Did you do a DQ Alpha test for that evidence item?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what results did you obtain?

A. Yes. This was our item number 52.

We obtained a DQ Alpha result with 1.1 was present, possible 1.2
allele a 1.3 was present, and also a 4 was present on DQ Alpha.

Q. Based upon that DQ Alpha test and D1S80 test, who would be the
possible source?

A. Because of the D1S80, it's always 24, 25, with a weaker 18.

All three principals were potential contributors to that blood.

Q. Evidence item 304. Could you describe your DQ alpha results on
that, please.

A. Yes. That was DQ alpha type 1.1, with a possible 1.2. 1.3 was
there, also 4. The D1S80 was 24, 25, with a weaker 18.

Q. And again, the possible sources for those results would be?

A. Again, the three principals are potential sources for that mixture.

Q. And then evidence item number 305 from the center console, what
were your results on that test?

A. In that case, it was 1.1, possible 1.2, then a weaker 1.3 and 4.

And then on the D1S80, it was 24, 25 and weaker 18.

Q. And possible contributors again on that would be?

A. Again, the three principals are possible contributors.

Q. These items, 303, 304, and 305, all tests from the center console,
were those all mixtures of more than one person's blood?

A. Yes, they were, stains.

Q. And finally, did you do anything with those three evidence items as
a group?

A. Yes. What I was able to do, because individually these samples had
relatively low amounts of DNA, but they did have enough combined to
make an RFLP typing feasible, I proceeded to combine all of them.

In other words, the extracted DNA, I combined all of that, did an RFLP
analysis on that, and then probed it.

We have four-probe RFLP analysis on that sample.

Q. What did that four-probe RFLP analysis tell you about the possible
sources of that blood?

A. The four-probe RFLP match is consistent with the mixture of DNA
from Mr. Simpson and also from Ronald Goldman.

And one sees a stronger contribution that lines up with Mr. Simpson's
bands and a weaker contribution that lines up with Mr. Goldman's
bands.

Q. So the possible contributors under that RFLP test are these two
individuals?

A. Yes, Mr. Simpson and Mr. Goldman.

Q. Thank you.

Why don't you have a seat.

Before we leave the Bronco automobile, let me ask you about one of the
other items there; that is item number 29.

Did you do a DQ alpha test on item number 29?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And what results did you get from that DQ alpha test in item number
29?

A. In item number 29, which I believe is a steering wheel, we got a
type -- main type of 1.1, 1.2, which was consistent with Mr. Simpson,
and we also detected a weaker 4 allele by itself.

Q. And did you make any conclusion as to who among these three could
possibly be excluded, based upon that test?

A. Well, as far as the exclusion, certainly the 1.1, 1.2 is the major
type, is consistent with Mr. Simpson.

The 4 allele was identified as being present.

The 1.3 of Mr. Goldman was not seen in that particular sample.

My opinion was that this appears to be an exclusion of Mr. Goldman,
but I could not be absolutely certain because of some of the
technicalities of this particular case that we may not -- we, at the
very low level of DNA, we were looking that, potentially, we would
lose one of Mr. Goldman's alleles or one of his dots, basically, but I
should point out there was no evidence of the 1.3.

Q. So that was somewhat an ambiguous result, was it?

A. Yes, I would describe that as an ambiguous result, as far as that
was concerned.

Q. Okay.

Why don't we have the next board.

MR. LAMBERT: This is Exhibit No. 320, Your Honor.

(Exhibit 320 displayed by counsel.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) This board lists results of tests by the
Department of Justice on the Rockingham glove. Renee Montgomery
already testified to some of these test results.

Mr. Sims, it appears that a significant number of tests with were run
on the glove; is that true?

A. Yes, they were.

Q. Let's just then go through them, if we can.

On item number -- what you call this is your nomenclature, G1?

A. Yes. "G" is for Gary. So that was my stain number one.

Q. Okay. So G1 is one of the stains on the glove?

A. That's correct.

Q. And for that particular stain, did you do a DQ alpha test?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And what were your results from that test?

A. On that particular test, it indicated a mixture with a type 1.1,
1.3, a 4, and then also a possible 1.2 allele.

Q. And then I see you also were able to obtain RFLP results on that
particular item.

A. Yes. I looked at an RFLP on three of those; we did an RFLP; then a
fourth one, we did an RFLP by itself.

Q. And the possible sources of people, pursuant to your tests for this
particular item, are who, sir?

A. On that particular sample, it would be Nicole Brown and Ronald
Goldman.

Q. And in your five-probe RFLP test results, were you able to see the
bands matching both Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman?

A. Yes. It was consistent with a cross -- with a mixture of DNA from
Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman on that sample.

Q. So for that particular sample, then, you have both a five-probe
RFLP test, a DQ alpha test, and a D1S80 test that are all consistent
with the blood coming from Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, item area G2, could you describe your DQ alpha test results
there.

A. Yes. That was, again, a mixture, 1.1, 1.3, 4, and then possible
1.2.

Q. And you were also able to do an RFLP test on that?

A. Yes. Again, we saw that same type of person, indicating a mixture
consistent with Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman.

Q. And the RFLP test is a test that is a powerful test for identifying
people, isn't it, sir?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And if you have five-probe matches, is that a substantial match, in
your opinion?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, let's go to -- we've already done this one.

Let's go down to area G4.

And can you tell us what your results were there, sir?

A. On G4, The DQ alpha again indicated a mixture, 1.1, 1.3, 4, and
then possible 1.2.

Q. And once again, were you able to type an RFLP result on that
evidence item?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And the possible sources for that item of evidence are who, sir?

A. Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown.

Q. And were you able to, at all five of those genetic markers that you
probed, able to see the banding appearance for both Ronald Goldman and
Nicole Brown?

A. Well, what was interesting especially, was that we looked at G1, G2
and G4, across one auto series of Autorads, and it was apparent that
the bands that could be attributed to Ronald Goldman were fairly
constant in intensity across the Autorads, whereas the bands that
lined up with Nicole Brown's bands tended to fade out, going from G1,
being the stronger, a little weaker for her at G2, and then weak at
G4.

Q. Did you draw any conclusion?

A. Yes.

Q. What conclusion did you draw?

A. Well, I think given that you could see the relative contributions,
it was highly significant that this was a very clear -- clearly
consistent with the mixture of the two.

In other words, you could figure out which band could go to which
individual.

Q. And let's go to area G9.

You obtained some DQ alpha results there, as well?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And what were those?

A. Again, that was a mixture of possible -- possibly a mixture. I saw
on DQ Alpha we had a type 1.3 and 4 present. There was a possibility
of a 1.2 allele and a possible trace of a 1.1 allele.

Q. And the possible contributors to this evidence item, then, that you
were able to ascertain, would be who?

A. Well, looking at that result with the D1S80, as well as the DQ
alpha, we could only say that it -- with some confidence, that it was
consistent with Ronald Goldman.

Q. Even though you had a possible 1.2 in this, you wouldn't conclude
that there's another possible contributor among the three?

A. Yes. For example, with the possible trace 1.1, we would need a
clear 1.1 and some more information on the D1S80 to attribute it to
either Nicole Brown or Mr. Simpson.

Q. And now taking evidence item G10 from the Rockingham glove, what
were your results there?

A. On that one, again, it was a 1.3, comma 4, possible 1.2, and then a
weaker 1.1 allele was detected.

Q. On the D1S80, we've already heard, were a 24 and a weaker 25.

A. Yes.

Q. So the possible sources on that particular item would be who, sir?

A. Ronald Goldman, and then Mr. Simpson, also.

Q. I think we've covered all of these.

Yes.

Yeah. Don't we have the next one?

MR. BLASIER: What number was that, was that last one?

MR. LAMBERT: The last one was 320, and this one is 297.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Results of DNA
Analysis, Rockingham Socks, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 297.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, Mr. Sims, did you receive a pair of socks
that were found in Mr. Simpson's master bedroom floor and marked
Exhibit 13?

A. Yes.

Q. Or evidence item 13?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you recall about when you received those?

A. Yes. The socks were received on September 26, 1994.

Q. And they were sent to you for what purpose, sir?

A. At that point in time, LAPD had detected and analyzed some of the
blood stains present on them, and we were asked to do DNA typing on
those blood stains.

Q. And when you first got the socks, sir, did you examine them?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. What did you observe in your initial examination?

A. In the initial examination of the socks, in a large -- relatively
large stain had been cut out around the ankle area of one of the
socks.

There was also on that same sock, a -- on the opposite side of that
stain, there was an area indicated with a white arrow. Then there was
also on the other sock, there was an area that had been outlined
previous to my examination.

Q. And did you then do any further examination of the socks after
looking at them?

A. Yes. I examined the socks. First I photographed them to document
what was present. And in the process of photographing those socks, and
under very bright camera lights, photography lights, I noticed that
there were additional stains on those socks.

At that point, then I later did some stereomicroscopic examination of
the socks and determined there were a lot of very small blood stains
on those socks.

Q. And were those blood stains that you had not seen with your naked
eye before you did the stereomicroscopic examination?

A. That's correct. These very small ones I did not see with my naked
eye.

Q. And was Dr. Blake with you when all this happened?

A. Yes, he was there at the time we initially examined the socks, and
he was there for some of the later examinations.

Q. And then did you do DNA tests on the socks?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. Let's start with the one up at the top here, which is your number
42A-1.

Did you do a DQ alpha test on that one?

A. Yes.

And I should point out, that is the large stain (indicating), and LAPD
had previously cut out some of that stain and submitted that to me in
a tube, along with the socks themselves.

Q. So you tested what you got in the tube from LAPD?

A. That's correct, for that particular stain only.

Q. Your DQ alpha result was what?

A. That was type -- we typed it as type 1.1, 1.1.

Q. And that's consistent with who?

A. Nicole Brown.

Q. And were you also able to do an RFLP test on that particular
evidence item?

A. Yes, we were able to obtain an 11 probe match on that particular
item.

Q. 11 probe match. Is that a significant match?

A. Yes, it's very significant.

Q. Can you please put in the frequency numbers for that 11 probe match
on that particular evidence item.

A. Yes.

The RFLP loci this is just 6 of those 11 probes the numbers come out
to be 1 in 7.7 billion, with a B, to 1 in 41 billion.

Q. And would you describe that as a rare occurrence, sir?

A. Yes, I would.

Q. Okay. Now, let's take number 42A-2.

What was your DQ alpha result there?

A. Yes, the DQ alpha result was 1.1, 1.2.

Q. And who's a possible source identified for those particular types?

A. That would be Mr. Simpson.

Q. And did you do a calculation for the frequency of those two types,
counting the D1S80, as well?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Would you please put that --

A. That number is 1 in 520 to 1 in 1,400.

Q. Now, let's go to evidence item number 42A-3.

What was your result on that item, sir?

A. The DQ alpha type was 1.1, 1.2.

Q. Again, who would the possible source be under the DQ alpha and
D1S80 tests?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. And on that evidence item, were you able to obtain RFLP results, as
well?

A. Yes, we were.

Q. And we have on the board here a nine-probe match.

Is that consistent with your recollection?

A. Yes, that was a nine-probe match.

Q. Is that a significant match, sir?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Can you put the frequencies up on the board for the nine-probe
match on that evidence item.

A. Again, this is just for six of those nine.

The numbers come out to be one in 57 billion to one in 150 billion.

Q. Would you describe that as a rare occurrence, sir?

A. Yes, I would.

Q. Now, could we go to evidence item number 42A-4.

What were your test results there?

A. The DQ alpha was 1.1, 1.2.

Q. And the D1S80, we already heard from Renee Montgomery.

Who would the possible source of that be?

A. Mr. Simpson.

Q. And would you put the frequency number in for that item, as well.

A. Yes. This would be one in 520 to one in 1,400.

Q. Now, we're down to number 42B-1.

And would you tell us what the DQ alpha results were there.

A. The DQ alpha result on that case was a type 1.1, 1.1.

We also thought there might be a possible trace of a 1.2 allele.

Q. The possible source for that, without regarding that, the 1.2,
would be who, sir?

A. Well, again including the D1S80 results, that would be Nicole
Brown.

Q. And the possible trace of 1.2, were you able to include anyone as a
possible source based upon that?

A. Well given -- given that I couldn't really say it was there, I
wouldn't make anything on that -- out of that result, that possible
trace.

Q. And then finally, on this chart, we have item -- your item 42B-2.

What are your results on that, sir?

A. On 42B-2 was the same, 1.1, 1.1 DQ alpha, possible trace of the
1.2, and the D1S80 was 18, 18.

Q. Because there was only a possible trace, you wouldn't include that
in your characteristics of the possible sources for that item?

A. That's correct; I would look at D1S80 results, too.

Q. So did you put frequency in for that item, just 1.1 and the 1.1 and
the 18, 18 D1S80 results?

A. Yes, for D1 and D2.

Q. Would they be the same?

A. Yes, they would be the same.

Q. Please?

A. They're both one in 990 to one in 8,900.

THE COURT: Let's take a ten-minute recess.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

(Exhibit 320 is displayed by counsel.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Getting back a second, Mr. Sims, to the Rockingham
glove board, I think I missed something there, on this item G3.

Yes, G3

You were able to obtain an RFLP result on that item, sir?

A. Yes, I did an RFLP result on that -- RFLP analysis on that
particular sample, and obtained an eight-probe match for Mr. Goldman.

Q. Could you give us the frequency for the RFLP result for Mr.
Goldman?

A. Yes.

That was one in 1.2 billion to one in 41 billion.

Q. Is that a significant RFLP result?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Would you describe that as a rare occurrence?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, let me show you Exhibit No. 319, entitled Rockingham Glove Blood
Results.

(The instrument herein referred to as Chart entitled Rockingham Glove
Blood Results was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
319.)

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Would you describe what this exhibit depicts, sir?

A. Yes. That exhibit depicts the -- the right-hand glove that was
analyzed in our laboratory.

JUROR: We can't see.

MR. LAMBERT: If people can't see, let me take this one down and put
this on the higher one.

(Counsel adjusts exhibit.)

JUROR: Thanks.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Okay. Please continue.

A. Yes, that item depicts the right-hand glove that was analyzed in
our laboratory. I took those photographs myself. And then the various
notations explained where the approximate locations are for the
collection sites for the various blood stains that were removed from
the glove.

Q. The ones that are listed on the other board sitting back in the
corner or over there?

A. That's correct.

Q. The sites where you found the DNA types that were consistent with
Mr. Simpson are on G number 10, G13 and G11?

A. That's correct. That was the D1S80 results by Renee Montgomery.

Q. These are all sort of towards the bottom portion of the glove?

A. Yes. They tend to focus around the wrist notch area on the palm
surface.

Q. The place you might touch the glove as you were taking it off, sir?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. LAMBERT: I have no further questions.

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, may we approach?

THE COURT: What was that exhibit?

MR. LAMBERT: 319.

I should move in two exhibits before I finish with Mr. Sims.

Number 2186, that's his C.V., and 297, which is the socks for the --

MR. BLASIER: Object to 2186, the C.V., Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2186 was
received in evidence.)

THE CLERK: We need that exhibit 2186.

MR. LAMBERT: And 319, as well.

THE COURT: Okay.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 319 was
received in evidence.)

THE COURT: You may approach.

MR. BLASIER: We don't need the reporter.

(A bench conference was held which was not reported.)

THE COURT: Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll resume the examination
tomorrow at 9 o'clock.

Don't talk about the case; don't form or express any opinions.

You may step down. You're excused until tomorrow.

(At 4:05 P.M., an adjournment was taken until Friday, November 15,
1996, at 9:00 A.M.)


</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-3</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B007-231</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov15.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053808 text/html 121341
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:47:41 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 17-Nov-96 19:12:44 GMT
Content-length: 121148
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/15/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 15, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1996
9:18 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: There's a motion by Plaintiff Goldman with regards to an
audio tape.

MR. GELBLUM: Yes, Your Honor.

We asked for this document February 15, and we served our document
demand, the very first document served in the case.

The response was that everything he had, had been turned over to the
LAPD or the DA was equally available to us. It turns out not to have
been true. This other tape we never heard of until it was aired on
national television, and we'd like it.

MR. BAKER: I have no such tape; my client has no such tape. And the
assertion that we have such tape and it was withheld is, of course,
without assertion at all.

THE COURT: It would appear from the moving papers that there is no
declaration indicating that the defendant has any such tape or
identifies the tape being in his possession.

MR. GELBLUM: The defendant recorded the tape.

THE COURT: Excuse me. There's not even a declaration in support of
anything in your moving papers.

MR. GELBLUM: I'll be happy to submit a declaration, if that's what it
takes.

There's no dispute the defendant recorded this audio --

THE COURT: There has to be a declaration that is a legally sufficient
declaration; that is to say, it cannot simply be on the basis of
hearsay, or you heard somebody say the tape was played on the radio or
television or whatever. That's all you have here.

MR. GELBLUM: Your Honor, I have --

THE COURT: You say Schiller played some tape. What tape? That doesn't
identify the tape.

Why don't you ask Mr. Schiller?

MR. GELBLUM: We did ask Mr. Schiller. He asserted the reporter shield.

THE COURT: You don't have that in your declaration.

MR. GELBLUM: I don't know if we need to ask Mr. Schiller, if Mr.
Simpson has the tape --

THE COURT: There's nothing to indicate that he does, because --

MR. BAKER: That is absolutely false.

MR. GELBLUM: -- that he recorded.

MR. BAKER: That is absolutely false. He does not have any such tape.

To make that assertion in open court, when you have no facts, is
absolute misconduct.

MR. GELBLUM: We have the facts. He recorded the tape; it was played;
he knows it was played. He's not denying that he made the tape.

And I think it's suspicious, at best, to hear that he apparently
doesn't have one, doesn't have a copy. Mr. Schiller has a copy.

MR. BAKER: That's reckless disregard of the truth, to say anything
like that.

THE COURT: Based on what you've got in your moving papers, I don't
find any sufficient facts on which I can base any order.

MR. GELBLUM: I'll bring the tape in, the portion of the tape that was
played on national TV; you can play that in court and listen to the
defendant's voice.

THE COURT: Why don't you use that as secondary evidence?

MR. GELBLUM: It's an excerpt. It's a very small excerpt that was
played, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Well, you haven't satisfied me that the defendant has the
tape. You don't have any declaration to support that conclusion, other
than your say-so, which is not very sufficient.

MR. GELBLUM: It's --

MR. PETROCELLI: You know --

MR. GELBLUM: You're right, Your Honor. And obviously, it's impossible
for me to know what the defendant actually has in his possession.

I'm working on a reasonable inference here, Your Honor, that the
defendant recorded it. Mr. Schiller has a copy of it, and that's --
and if he wants to say that he, in fact, doesn't have it under oath
and everything --

THE COURT: How do I --

What is there? How can I assume that you know that Schiller didn't
tape it and has the original? How? How do I know that, you know, that
that is not the fact?

MR. GELBLUM: We'll submit additional material.

MR. PETROCELLI: You're going to subpoena Schiller.

MR. GELBLUM: We did subpoena Schiller.

We did subpoena Schiller. He asserted the reporter shield.

THE COURT: I don't care what you do. I'm telling you, based on what
you've given me, that the motion is insufficient on its face.

MR. GELBLUM: We'll submit additional material.

THE COURT: Motion is denied on its face.

MR. PETROCELLI: We're going to bring in Mr. Schiller.

THE COURT: I don't care what you do.

Bring in the jury.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Good morning.

JURORS: Morning.

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you please state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: My name is Gary Alan Sims.

GARY ALAN SIMS, the witness on the stand at the time of the
adjournment on November 14, 1996, having been previously duly sworn,
was examined and testified further as follows:

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Good morning, Mr. Sims.

A. Good morning.

Q. Can you tell me -- give me an approximation of the amount of time
that you've spent on this case, working for the plaintiffs?

A. Just The civil matter now?

Q. Yeah.

A. I would estimate on the order of about 20 hours, something like
that.

Q. Now, do you keep a detailed billing of your hours?

A. Yes. I've kept records of the time that I've spent. And that --
that 20 hours didn't include the testimony part.

Q. Okay.

And do you charge the plaintiffs for the time that you spend on the
case?

A. The state -- the state has some kind of a policy where they bill
the attorneys for my time on the case, yes.

Q. Do you know whether this -- the state has been paid anything for
the work that has been done so far?

A. To date -- no bill has been issued to date.

Q. In preparing for your testimony, how much time did you spend with
Mr. Lambert?

A. Well, I would estimate about 16 hours, two days, something like
that.

Q. And did he have a whole set of questions all typed out, ready to
ask you?

A. He had an outline of some of the issues that he wanted to bring up
on his direct, yes.

Q. Were they typed questions that you went over with him?

A. They were -- They weren't questions; it was just an outline that I
reviewed with him.

Q. Okay.

One of the things you talked about yesterday was the ability of DNA
testing to be used to exclude people.

Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you have an exclusion, it means that you can tell from
whatever test you've done, that clearly two bands or two of the dots
on a testing strip or whatever, clearly show that the DNA from the
evidence is different from the DNA from the suspect, correct?

A. Yes; I think that's a pretty good definition.

Q. That's all you need to do to reach an exclusion, correct?

A. Yes, in most cases, and assuming the test was run properly, et
cetera.

Q. Okay.

And where you have an inclusion, or where you can't rule somebody out,
that's where you get into the area of interpreting band lengths and
statistics and coming up with numbers, one in so many billion,
whatever, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. That whole aspect of the technology has no relevance to exclusion,
does it?

A. You would still do band lengths, for example, to an exclusion.

To show an exclusion, you can visually see it in most cases. You would
also do that part of it.

As far as the statistics, you wouldn't need to; you'd just have an
exclusion.

Q. Okay.

And you indicated that in your lab, when you're sent evidence and
reference samples from suspects, you exonerate people up to 25 percent
of the time, correct?

A. Something like that.

I think I gave a figure of 20, 25, something in there.

Q. Some labs, like the FBI, said 30 -- or a third?

A. Yes, some labs have higher.

That may be due to the fact that we sometimes have prescreening tests,
conventional serology, for example, that's done first. So there may be
more likelihood that we would include on that basis, if earlier tests
have also included.

Q. And that's people that have been arrested, in some cases charged,
and in some cases are in prison, correct?

A. We -- I don't think in our laboratory, we've done any cases where
somebody is already in prison. There have been others nationwide --
there are other cases like that, though.

Q. So is it accurate to say that of the cases that are sent to you,
where the police have focused on somebody as a suspect, you're able to
show that they're wrong 25 percent of the time?

A. Well, it's -- as far as that focus, we've been able to exclude that
individual.

Sometimes these are just sort of checking the -- checking somebody's
DNA against a sample, for example, that is not necessarily a prime
suspect, for example, something like that.

I understand what you're saying, basically. That's basically it; that,
in other words, there is some suspicion of an individual, and the DNA
tests show that that's not the individual who is contributing the DNA.
That's -- yeah.

Q. So there's a substantial percentage where the police have got the
wrong guy, and you're able to show that, right?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, Your Honor. Misstates the evidence, assumes
facts not in evidence.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Sims, I want to ask you some questions about
the procedures you're using in your lab.

And let me do the Elmo first.

MR. P. BAKER: This will be next in order, Erin.

THE CLERK: 2187.

(The instrument herein referred to as Orange Diagram Re Degradation
was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2187.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Putting up on the Elmo, 2187.

THE CLERK: Right.

MR. BLASIER: I'll write that down.

Back that out a little bit.

This is a relatively low tech peel away exhibit.

Q. Now, I want you to assume for the purposes of the questions that
I'm going to ask you, that this is intended to depict a blood spot or
blood drop on the left.

A. Okay.

Q. And I'm going to ask you questions about what causes degradation of
DNA.

You have that in mind?

A. Okay.

Q. And again, when you're talking about degradation, you're talking
about the DNA breaking up into smaller and smaller pieces, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And as it does that, it limits your ability to analyze it, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. It doesn't change the type of the DNA; it just inhibits your
ability to examine it?

A. That's correct.

Q. And can affect how it shows up on an Autorad or dots on the strip?

A. Yes.

Q. The only way you could have someone else's DNA show up is there is
contamination, correct?

A. Yes, that's basically it.

MR. BLASIER: Phil, can you focus it better?

THE COURT: There's part of the degradation, I think.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

(Laughter.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Looking at the first column there, it says sample
and surface.

Can you get the one on the bottom? If you have a swatch made from a
stain, the type of surface that you put it on can affect degradation,
can it not?

A. Yes.

Q. So if you have two different stains, one of them black and one of
them is red there, and they are put on two different surfaces, that
might affect the quality of the DNA; you might have a difference in
quality at that point?

A. Yes.

Q. And the next column is for the history of the stain. If one stain
is treated differently in terms of how long it's refrigerated, whether
it's frozen and thawed, whether it's in a room with high humidity or
low humidity, all of that can affect the quality of the DNA on that
sample, correct?

A. Yes, to some extent.

Q. So that if you have two different samples from the same blood drop,
and one has a different history in terms of how it's preserved and how
it's looked at and how many times it's examined, that can affect the
quality of the DNA in the samples?

A. Yes. Especially when you talk about those like preservation; that
would be important.

Q. Okay.

And, in fact, in drying a stain, if you have a stain that you transfer
to, let's say, a thick paper surface, and you put it in a closed-in
area, with no air circulation, that may be warm, that may be humid,
that can cause the DNA to start breaking down, correct?

A. Well, especially if there are other environmental factors that have
been introduced to that sample, as opposed to a pristine blood sample.

Q. The one converse is if you have a stain that's put on a thin piece
of cloth, for instance, that allows air to circulate through it and
it's a fairly porous, that can dry more quickly and preserve the
quality of the DNA, correct?

A. Yes, that would -- that would tend to negate against the
deleterious aspects of the environment.

Q. Now, if you take a sample from the same stain at different times,
you might wind up with different qualities of DNA, correct?

A. Well, for example, would it be a stain that's set out in the
environment for that long a period of time and then was collected at a
later date, is that it?

Q. Yeah.

A. Yes.

Q. Can we see the next column, please.

(Indicating to exhibit on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Actually, the manner in which a stain is processed
once it gets to the lab can affect -- that can add -- that's another
factor that can affect the quality of the DNA, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And if you have two different samples from the same source,
processed at two different times, depending on if you vary the
conditions under which they're processed, that might affect the
quality of the two samples, correct?

When I say "difference" --

A. Can you be a little more specific on that?

I'm not quite following you.

Q. Sure.

Let's say the extraction phase where you're removing the DNA from
whatever it happens to be on, and coupled that with the phase where
you had what are called enzymes, restriction enzymes -- correct?

A. Yes.

Q. The purpose of those are, that's what breaks it up into pieces that
allows it to go in an Autorad from top to bottom --

A. Yes.

Q. -- by size?

A. Yes.

Q. That's a mechanism where you're trying to break up the DNA?

A. Yes; you're trying to break it up in an orderly fashion.

Q. And if you use this one sample on one day, you use a little less
DNA -- the same amount of restriction enzyme -- than you use on the
second day, that can affect -- you could start degrading the sample if
your restriction enzyme is in there a little bit too long, if it's a
different quantity?

A. That's -- I don't think that's a significant factor. I wouldn't say
that with the restriction enzyme, as far as the protocols go. The
restriction enzyme or the restriction usually can go for a fairly
broad period of time without any major differences. That's not
significant.

Q. All of these factors that we've talked about can lead to an Autorad
that has two samples from the same source that look different because
one's more degraded than the other, correct?

A. Well, yes, all of those factors would go into that.

Q. And the fact that one is more degraded than the other, tells you
nothing about whether or not they came from the same source, does it?

A. Now, when you say "the same source," are you saying --

Q. Same original source.

A. Same person or same stain? Or that's where --

Q. Let's talk about a stain first.

A. Okay. Okay.

Q. Is that correct?

A. In -- In a laboratory setting, if you were to, say, sample a blood
stain and take it through your process, and then sample that same
stain in the laboratory, now, I wouldn't expect to see much difference
there.

Q. Okay. But let's talk about the other factors before that.

A. Okay.

What happens prior to it getting to the laboratory, that could be very
important.

Q. Okay.

So you can't really tell from looking at the Autorad at the end of the
line, for two different samples that were handled differently, just by
how good the banding pattern -- how clear, how crisp the bands are.

You can't really tell anything about the original source of the
sample, can you?

A. I think we need to be more specific. I'm not quite following.
You're talking about source. Are you talking about the same
individual? Are you talking about --

Q. Yes.

A. Are you talking about --

Q. Yeah.

A. Okay.

One would notice that one sample, if they're substantially different
in terms of degradation pattern, I think you can make an inference
there that something happened to this sample that didn't happen to the
other sample.

Q. And that can account for differences in the way the bands appear,
not where they are, but how clear they are?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, let's change the hypothetical just a little bit. And rather
than a blood spot, we have a reference tube.

A. Okay.

Q. And let's say you take a sample out of that reference tube and put
it on a thin fabric, like a sock --

A. Okay.

Q. -- that's allowed to air-dry quickly.

A. Okay.

Q. And the more quickly it's allowed to dry, the better the quality is
going to be in the DNA, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And let's say sample number 2 is taken from the reference vial at a
different time --

A. Okay.

Q. -- put on a different surface, such as a piece of paper, and is
allowed to dry in a different way from the sock; that can result in a
difference in the DNA, correct, in terms of how it's degraded?

A. Yes.

And also, I would include the factor that the longer that it's in the
liquid state, we see some degradation just from that.

Q. Okay.

That's just because water is the -- is a real enemy to the DNA in the
sense that it really enhances degradation, correct?

A. Well, and there are processes going on inside a liquid blood tube
that don't occur once you dye it out on a stain.

Q. Okay.

So that the quality of the blood in a reference tube is going to
change over time?

A. Yes, it will.

Q. And if you take a stain, or if you take a sample from a reference
tube, shortly after it's been collected, it's going to be higher
quality DNA than if you take a sample a month later?

A. In most cases, you'll see some -- some differences.

Q. Okay.

And the same reasoning applies to an Autorad. At the end of the line,
if you have two samples that came from the same reference tube, but
were collected at different times, put on different surfaces,
subjected to different conditions, it would not be unusual at all to
have one of them high quality and one of them not so high quality?

A. You threw in the word "unusual." I'm not sure I would use that
term.

Can you give me that hypothetical exactly again.

Q. Sure.

If you have two samples taken from the same reference tube, but taken
at different times --

A. Okay.

Q. -- Put on different surfaces, one on a thin cloth, one on a piece
of paper --

A. Okay.

Q. -- subject to different preservation in terms of one may be frozen
and thawed many times, or may be left unfrozen for a period of time,
as opposed to the other one, it would not be unusual for you to see a
difference in quality of those two samples when you do your Autorad?

A. I would expect in that case, the biggest factor would be how long
the liquid was in the tube. That would be correct unless there was
something grossly different in the processing.

Q. Well, if the blood that was put on the piece of paper was left in a
room or a closed in room with no air circulation, and took longer to
dry than on the piece of cloth, that's going to affect the quality of
the DNA, too, isn't it?

A. That could.

But again, if we're talking about a tube sample, it's a fairly clean
sample to begin with, so it should be a pretty clean sample to begin
with.

Q. To begin with?

A. Yeah.

Q. Now, when you examined the reference samples in this case, you
actually -- you don't -- you don't just accept the typing that was
done by LAPD; you retype them yourselves, don't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you're sent a reference sample, they don't send you the
blood vial, do they?

A. Most of the time, we get a swatch or a stain card that's been
prepared.

Q. And in this case, the reference samples that you got from LAPD were
on what are called Fitzco cards, weren't they?

A. There were -- there were three sets of victim reference samples in
this case. Two of them came in on the Fitzco cards, the paper, and
then one of them -- the one I used, not RFLP, came in on like, a
swatch material and a gauze sort of cloth.

My understanding is, it was the gauze ones that were actually prepared
by the coroner's office. The stains were prepared by the coroner's
office, is my understanding.

THE COURT REPORTER: May I have a spelling for Fitzco?

MR. BLASIER: F-I-T-Z-C-O.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) And if you had a sample that was on a different
surface from your reference sample, subjected to different conditions,
even though it came from the same place, there's a difference in
quality on the Autorad, would not be surprising?

A. You could see some slight difference, yes.

Q. Let me show you -- this is Criminal Exhibit 269-A.

MR. P. BAKER: Civil 308.

MR. BLASIER: 308.

(The instrument herein referred to as copy of "Autorad" - 1 was marked
for identification as Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 308.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Does this look -- do you recognize this as one of
your Autorads?

A. Yes, I do. That looks like -- I don't remember which probe that is
offhand, but can you show me the bottom of the Autorad?

Q. Sure.

I'm not going to ask you about the probe, but sure.

A. Yes. Okay.

There's AM616/D1S80. I can see my initials on it now.

Q. And the lane here is the reference sample that you ran for Nicole
Brown Simpson, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the lane here where it says sock, 13A, is the large stain on
the sock, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you would agree that the quality of these two look pretty much
the same?

A. I would say they're comparable.

Q. And with your other Autorads on those same samples, do you recall
whether there was a difference in quality between -- let me show you
this one.

MR. BLASIER: This is 269B criminal.

MR. P. BAKER: 309 civil.

MR. BLASIER: 309 civil.

(The instrument herein referred to as copy of "Autorad" - A2 was
marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 309.)

THE WITNESS: Yes. That one, I think, is D1S7.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) And there it appears -- and again, this is the
same DNA, isn't it?

A. I would say on the basis of the -- of the number of probes there's
a very high likelihood that that sock DNA came from Nicole Brown.

Q. Okay. Now -- that was a bad question.

Each Autorad that you make is from the same sample, from the same gel?

A. Oh, yes. I'm sorry. That's correct.

Q. So we're not looking at a different rung; we're looking at a
different -- different sections of the DNA on the same gel?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you would agree that in this one, the socks appear to be a
little more smudgy or not as tight and crisp as the reference sample.

A. I would say those are comparable, also.

Q. The point is, you can't, by looking at the differences in the
quality from the reference sample to the evidence sample, say that
they couldn't come from the same source, would you?

A. Now, when you -- again, when you say "same source," are you talking
about the same person?

Q. Same person, or same reference file.

A. With just --

MR. LAMBERT: Misstates the evidence in terms of reference file, Your
Honor; misstates the evidence, assumes facts not in evidence.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Well, let's talk about the same person first.

A. Okay.

So the -- no. I mean, certainly I would say that those bands match all
the way down through the probings.

Q. What I'm talking about now is the quality of the bands themselves.
The fact that there may be a difference in quality, that doesn't mean
they came from different sources, does it?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And the same would be true of two samples taken from a reference vial
at different times under different conditions?

A. Well, if they looked -- in other words, if they looked the same,
the same type of degradation or lack of degradation.

Q. Or differ doesn't mean it came from the same source, does it?

A. Not necessarily.

Q. Okay. Thank you.

Now, I want to ask you some questions about the -- about
cross-contamination.

A. Okay.

Q. In cross-contaminations, you can have DNA from one source get into
a second source, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And with PCR, where you're amplifying small amounts of -- of
evidence, if you've got a contaminant in there, that amplifies, as
well, correct?

A. Yes it can, if there's a sufficient contamination.

Q. And the problem of contamination and PCR test, that's kind of the
biggest potential problem that you can have with that kind of testing,
isn't it?

A. Yes. It's something you really have to watch for.

Q. And you take very careful precautions to avoid doing things that
can result in cross-contamination, correct?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. Okay.

MR. BLASIER: We're having a little blinking problem, but bear with me.

(Indicating to screen for Elmo).

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) I want to ask you questions about some of the
things that can cause cross-contamination, some of the factors.

A. Okay.

Q. This isn't cross-contamination; this is degradation. We talked
about how the DNA can break up and how you can't get a reading.

A. Yes.

Q. You've seen these slides, haven't you?

A. They do look vaguely familiar.

Q. If you have two samples, one that has very high quality DNA, high
molecular weight, good DNA, and an evidence sample that has small
amounts, maybe not so good DNA; you want to avoid those samples being
processed at the same time, if possible, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Because the amount of DNA in the good one, there's been -- there's
too much DNA; you don't want it to get into the bad one?

A. Yes.

Q. If you have evidence samples from different crime scenes -- in this
case, two different houses, a condo and a house, and a third crime
scene being a vehicle, you would be careful not to process samples
from those three sources together, correct?

A. Yes.

And when we say "together," I mean I wouldn't want to do it right
together unless, you know, as a general policy -- I know, for example,
in our processing of these samples, we process the initial -- the
initial contains -- we looked at -- one was from Bundy, one was from
Rockingham -- at the same time, but I did separate them by another
sample so that they couldn't touch, they wouldn't be contiguous.

Q. They couldn't cross-contaminate each other?

A. That's why I took the precaution.

Q. And by the same token, you don't process reference samples which is
rich in DNA from a blood tube, for instance, with an evidence sample?

A. Yes, that's correct; we never co-extract those at the same time. We
do -- we separate them by time and/or space.

Q. And that's an important consideration, is it not?

A. I believe it is, yes.

Q. And you try not to process the victims' and the suspects' reference
samples together, as well, correct?

A. Well, if they're both high quality reference samples, I wouldn't be
too concerned about that.

I would -- generally, in a case, I would process the reference samples
as its own set, but I would keep them together. I don't see a problem
with that.

Q. Okay.

If you try to run too many samples at once, you try to do too much
work in a short period of time, that creates a danger of making
mistakes, too, doesn't it?

A. I think if one extracts an extreme number of samples, the more
likelihood of something going wrong in that area than if you're
keeping it down to a lower number.

Q. Okay.

A. I try to keep it to a lower number.

Q. All right.

Now, I want to ask you some questions about how blood or other
biological material can move from one place to another.

You can have what's called an aerosol effect by opening a blood tube,
and if you're not careful, you can get, actually, a little aerosol
spray of blood, can you not?

A. Yes, you can.

Q. And if you process samples on a piece of paper on your lab bench --
let's say you dried some swatches in a test tube and you scraped them
out after they're dry onto a piece of paper, you can very easily get
little, tiny flecks of blood that come from the sides of the test tube
on that paper, can't you.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, Your Honor. Beyond the scope; irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, that would be a concern, depending on the care one
takes in doing that. So you would -- you would have to be very careful
in doing that.

I would change the paper.

Q. Okay.

You change the paper between each sample, don't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's because of that possible source of cross-contamination?

A. Well, that more. Just as we process anything, we like to change the
paper between the samples.

Q. Okay.

And if you get something on your gloves from one sample and then you
process a second sample, that's another source of contamination, is it
not?

A. It's a potential source, yes.

Q. And the instruments that you use to process a sample, if you use
those same instruments without doing anything to them and go on to the
next sample, that can transfer blood or spray biological material from
the first to the second, can't it?

A. Yes. This is, again, a potential source of contamination.

Q. In fact, you, in your lab, between samples, you flame your tools,
do you not?

A. I personally rinse them and wipe them and then flame them.

Q. And flaming them means putting them under a Bunson burner to make
sure you're killing off any of the DNA that might have been on there
from the sample you just processed?

A. Yes; that's the approach I use.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit was that?

MR. BLASIER: What exhibit was that?

We'll have the collection of slides as the next in order.

THE CLERK: 2188.

MR. BLASIER: 2188.

(The instrument herein referred to as a collection of slides was
marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2188.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, you would agree, would you not, that there
are approximately between 1,000 and 2,000 nanograms in a drop of
blood?

A. That's a reasonable figure, something like that, about a thousand
nanograms or a microgram.

Q. And there are about 20 drops of blood in one cc, as an estimate?

A. Somewhere around there, yeah.

Q. So there would be 30 drops in one and a half cc's?

A. Something like that, yes.

Q. And in those 30 drops, there would therefore be anywhere from
30,000 to 60,000 nanograms of DNA?

A. Yes, there would be somewhere in that range.

Q. And all of the DNA in this case that you processed, anyway, was
total, far less than that amount of nanograms, correct?

A. Well, except -- not reference samples.

Q. Correct.

A. All the evidentiary samples, that's correct.

Q. Yeah.

Now, I want to ask you a couple questions about your statistics.

You use the same concept when you calculate frequencies that Cellmark
does, correct?

You use the product rule?

A. Yes.

Q. And you also, because of imprecision in measurement, you have a
window, as well, that you use, correct?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. And that allows you to declare things that are matches, even though
your -- they have different lengths, correct, or look like they have
different lengths?

A. Yes.

In other words, there's a plus or minus that you give to any of these
measurements that's acceptable.

Q. Okay.

And you would agree, would you not, that if the -- the length of a
fragment in your suspect evidence and the length of a fragment in your
evidence are different in any respect, they came from different
people, correct?

A. If -- If there's no, for example, what we call band shift or
something like that, there are phenomenon you have to be aware of as
an examiner. But in general, what one would see was that the bands
were clearly off, and even if they matched at one probe, then sooner
or later, they're going to be off in another probe.

MR. BLASIER: I think this might be a good time, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay. Ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(The notes of the proceedings at this point were ordered sealed by the
Court, not to be opened, transcribed, or destroyed except upon order
of a Judge of the Superior Court.)

(Pages 33 through 34)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, one of your number has
been excused. You're not to speculate as to the reason why or concern
yourself as to the reason why.

Okay. You may proceed.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You said, Mr. Sims -- at the break, we were
talking about windows. Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. And your lab uses a window to -- because of the limitations of the
technology and the limitations of your ability to really measure these
fragments precisely, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And what is the size of your window?

A. The -- the window that we have is plus or minus 1.8 percent, for a
total of 3.6 percent.

Q. Mr. Sims can you see from here?

A. Just slightly more of an angle, I can see it.

(Indicating to exhibit.)

Q. If you need to come down, you can come down.

A. That's fine.

Q. So your window is 3 or 3.6 percent, correct?

A. That's the total.

In other words, if two samples were to be declared a match, they would
have to be no more than a total of 3.6 percent apart, and that would
define the extremes.

Q. Okay.

So hypothetically, a band that is -- if we talk about a 10,000
base-pair band, you would declare that to match to a band that is as
small as 10,000 minus 360, right?

A. Well, there's one technical glitch here, and that is that our match
criteria only applied below 9,416 base pairs you're up at that high
end where we don't have a match criterion. That's why we don't use
those bands in the statistical calculations, either.

Q. So you -- you've just ruled those out; you don't even measure
those?

A. We visually look at them -- that's important -- that's the first
part of the process, to decide visually if they match.

We would do the sizing after that. They can be more at that high end
because we don't have the match criteria that's the same up there.

Q. Okay. Your cell markings go all the way up to 3,000 base pairs?

A. I'm not aware of that. I don't know.

Q. For our hypothetical, let's assume 10,000, an easy number to work
with.

A. Okay.

Q. Under your match criteria, the lower end of what you would declare
a match is 10,000 minus the 360 approximately, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. I think that misstates the evidence.

Q. 3.6 percent, 10,000?

A. Can I just do the . . .

Q. Sure.

(Witness performs calculation.)

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. What's that number?

A. That would be -- that would be 9640.

Q. And the upper end of that would be 10,000?

A. Plus.

Q. Plus 360?

A. Yes.

Q. And I can't reach -- (indicating to handwritten diagram).

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me. What number is that?

MR. BLASIER: This is 2184.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) So you would declare a match for any bands that
your computer told you were within this range, correct, when you're
comparing it to a band here?

A. When -- yes, when we're comparing it to a band there, at that -- at
that particular point, then we could go 3.6 percent in either
direction for that particular band.

Q. And you would agree, would you not, that in reality, if there is a
single base-pair difference between your -- this one and this one,
it's from different people, right?

A. If -- Well, you would possibly see more like a 16 base pair,
something like that.

It would be a different repeat. You know, there's a technical reason
for that.

Q. Right.

A. Yes. Different people.

Q. And you don't have the ability to measure it down to that
tolerance, do you?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, your window is a different size window from other labs, isn't
it?

A. Yes.

Q. And Cellmark -- your testimony was approximately plus or minus 2.6
percent. We used 2.5 because the numbers are easier. It means 5
percent below and 5 percent above.

So you would agree, would you not, that under your window, if
something fell outside of your range, you wouldn't call it -- you
would say that it did not match; whereas, another lab with the same
data might say it's a match?

A. It -- well, again, part of the assessment, though, too, is the
visual assessment when we see something at that level, say 3.6 percent
-- I mean, I would be very suspicious that those two samples would
match, just because it's so rare that unless there's some real change
in the sample, that you would see that much of a shift.

Q. Okay.

A. That's an incredible shift. And so that's why we do so many of
these probes, is to see that they line up all the way down, across all
the Autorads.

Q. You would agree that you allow yourselves this much of a tolerance
in your measurements, don't you?

A. We do on a single-band basis. And again, we would -- we would have
to see that consistently through all the probes.

Q. Okay. And a band -- two bands that your computer told you were two
percent apart is treated just the same as -- just as good a match as
two bands that your computer says are really the same, right?

A. Well, when you when you look at it on the -- on the basis of a
single band, that's correct.

But part of this whole assessment is looking at the entire profile
across all the Autorads. And I would never expect to see a change of
that sort of magnitude in one direction and then a change in the other
direction of that sort of magnitude. That wouldn't happen.

Q. Okay.

But you -- tell me, the most -- the highest number -- highest RFLP
number for a stain consistent with Mr. Simpson was what?

Do you remember?

A. No. I'd have to go through all the data to see what it is.

Q. You had one that was a -- did you have a nine-probe match?

A. Yes, I believe we did, on the rear gate and one of the sock stains.

Q. Okay.

A nine-probe match means you're looking at 18 bands, correct?

A. Well, it could be that there's a single-band pattern in one of
those, but I think -- I think Mr. Simpson was a double-band pattern in
all those loci, I think. That's my recollection.

Q. So of those bands, can you tell me how many did your computer tell
you were actually the same?

A. Were exactly the same?

Q. Yeah.

A. I'd have to go through the data.

I doubt if any of them were exactly the same.

Q. Okay.

So your computer told you that none of those bands were identical,
correct?

A. Well, I'm not sure on that. I'd have to check the data on that,
that none of them were.

Q. Well, to save you a little bit of time, isn't it true that in most
of these cases, the computer tells you that the bands are not the
same?

A. Generally, there's a slight variation; that's correct.

Q. You were asked about the back gate stain, 117. Do you remember
those?

A. Yes.

Q. And we were talking about the quality of the DNA or the quantity of
DNA in that back gate stain, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were asked questions about the fact that drops that are
picked up off the concrete might have different quantities of DNA than
blood that is on a surface like the gate, correct?

A. Yes. I would think the gate would be less absorbed. For example,
Mr. --

Q. Okay.

You tested DNA sample number 44, which was LAPD item number 51,
correct?

Remember that?

A. I'm sorry. Could you give they me those numbers again.

Q. Yeah. LAPD item number 51.

A. Okay.

Q. And you gave that DNA sample number 44?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. And that was a stain from the front gate at Bundy, was it not?

A. Yes.

I want to check the notes on that.

Q. It might help you to know that was LAPD photo item number 116.

A. Okay. Thank you.

Yes, that is our number 44, LAPD number 51, blood stain collected from
the front gate.

Q. That was collected on June 14, was it not, along with the Bundy
drops?

A. That's my understanding.

Q. And that was the same kind of surface as 117 on the back gate that
was collected three weeks later, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. Let's assume hypothetically -- I mean, it's the same kind of gate
surface as 117, isn't it.

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection.

MR. BLASIER: Do you know?

THE COURT: If you know.

A. I remember seeing some photographs and I think -- I think it looked
somewhat similar. I don't remember if they're both white or what
exactly -- if they're the same, but they're similar sort of metal
surfaces, as I recall, painted metal surfaces.

Q. Okay.

A. There's that in my memory.

Q. You're aware that 117 on the back gate wasn't collected until July
3 or thereabouts?

A. That's my understanding, yes.

Q. Now, you did testing on item 51 from the front gate. And the DNA in
that sample was severely degraded, was it not?

A. Yes, it was; the DNA was degraded on that sample.

Q. And the DNA from 117 on the back gate was much, much higher in
quantity, was it not?

A. It was. Actually, the overall total quantity of human DNA was
estimated to be about four times more on the gate, but the DNA on the
-- on the front gate was degraded human DNA.

Q. Okay.

Now -- and the amount of DNA on the rear gate, also, when you try to
quantitate how much is there, again, these are your estimates, are
they not?

A. Yes, these are estimates. Some of them are based on slot blots for
a human probe; some of them are just based on total yields of DNA.

Q. And the back gate stain had more DNA than the Bundy drops and the
Rockingham drops, correct, in the Rockingham driveway?

A. Can you say that again? Which ones?

Q. The Bundy drops and item number 6, which is a Rockingham drop?

A. Had more DNA? I'm sorry.

Q. At 117, had a lot more DNA than those, correct?

A. It had about twice as much as one of the Rockingham drops.

Q. Okay. You remember we went through calculations in the criminal
trial --

A. Yes.

Q. -- on quantity. And the estimate at that time was that number 6 --
that 117 had four times as much DNA as number 6. Do you remember that?

A. Yes. I think when we did this, though, we did some kind of
calculation where we looked at nanograms of DNA per milligram of
swatch material, because all these samples were weighed.

But as far as the overall yield, the number 117 had about 1008
nanograms; whereas, the number 6, the Rockingham sample, had about 56
nanograms. So it was about twice as much on the rear gate as the
Rockingham drop in terms of total DNA from all the swatches and that
sort of thing.

That's one of the variations in these kinds of calculations, how these
samples are collected and how concentrated the swatches are, how much
variation there is among and within swatches.

Q. And you calculate or calculated that item number 47, the first
Bundy drop, that 117 had about 27 times as much DNA as 47, correct?

A. Yes, on a nanogram per million gram, basis that's correct.

Q. 47 had an extremely small amount of DNA, did it not?

A. Yes. It was -- it was a -- it was about 4 nanograms that we got out
of it, 4.3 nanograms. Some of the other ones had less.

Q. Okay. Bundy drop 48 had -- 117 had 45 times as much DNA as Bundy
drop 4, did it not, approximately?

A. Yes, again on a nanogram of DNA per million gram of swatch basis.

Q. Bundy drop 17 had about 270 times as much DNA as Bundy drop 49?

A. Yes, again, on that same basis.

Q. Bundy drop 50, item 117, had about 50, 51 times as much DNA as
Bundy drop 50, correct?

A. Yes, again on that same basis.

Q. Now, 52, you got more DNA out of 52 than in any of the other Bundy
drops, correct?

You were able to do it?

A. Excuse me.

No. On our -- there was a little difference here because our sample of
52 was a very small, little piece of the swatch. So on the basis of
what we got out of that one swatch that we tested, because there were
two that came back to us, we tested one of those and got about 3.6
nanograms out of that.

Q. Okay.

So that's much, much more than 11 times. 117 is much more than 11
times of 52?

A. I think, again, as we look at this on the basis of this nanograms
per -- nanograms DNA per milligram of swatch, it's about -- that's
about right, 11 times.

Q. All right.

And you're aware, are you not, that 52, there was enough to get an
RFLP result?

A. Yes, that's my understanding, that's the sample that Cellmark got
the RFLP result on.

We tested it for just the PCR markers, DQ alpha and D1S80.

MR. BLASIER: Can we have the slide next in order, Phil.

MR. P. BAKER: I have.

MR. BLASIER: Phil, 1118.

(The instrument herein referred to as chart entitled "Comparison of
Swatched DNA Samples to 117" was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1118.)

THE COURT: That's without the flashing.

MR. P. BAKER: Without the flashing.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, item number 117, stain from the back gate,
had a great deal of genetic information in it, didn't it?

A. Yes, it did.

Q. You didn't -- in processing item 117, you did not do anything to
that stain that would have added EDTA to it, did you?

A. I did nothing that would deliberately add it.

I mean, the samples -- we use EDTA as part of our chemicals in our
laboratory on a routine basis. We weighed some of these swatches out
on an analytical balance that was probably about, oh, three feet from
a couple kilograms of EDTA, but we took measures to prevent any of
that EDTA, certainly, from getting on any of those swatches.

So -- but when you do the actual extraction, then you do use EDTA as
part of the chemicals. We left a portion of that sample by itself
untested.

Q. Well, then the use of EDTA, that's something new, is it not?

A. Well, it's been in forensic laboratories for years. EDTA is a
chemical.

Q. In terms of your using it in these kinds of tests, that was a
change of protocol that happened after your work in this case, was it
not, based on an article that came out?

A. No. I think you're confused here, because EDTA is a standard
chemical used in any molecular biology laboratory.

Q. But not put in these samples and not put in 117?

A. It wouldn't be added to the swatches, but when you take the -- some
of the swatches and do the extraction of the DNA, to get the DNA out
of the blood stain, there's EDTA in the chemicals that you add to that
blood stain. Okay.

Q. Okay.

But you don't -- you don't put it in the swatch?

A. No. I mean we would research a portion of the swatch that we don't
add any EDTA to.

Q. Okay.

Now, I put up the Bronco automobile board, which is -- I'm not sure
what number it is. I think it's on the back. I think it's 131.

(Referring to Exhibit 293.)

Q. One of your results from the center console, stain number 31, you
indicated had a weak 4 and a very weak 1.3, correct?

A. I remember that they were both weak. I don't remember the averb
"very" being put on the 1.3, but it is present on the exhibit there.

Q. There was a difference in intensity between the dots on the 4 and
the 1.3, wasn't there?

A. I think the 1.3 was a little bit weaker than the 4.

Q. And even though they had different intensities, you concluded that
that was consistent with Ronald Goldman, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when you get a sample from evidence, you're going to get an
equal amount of one allele as the other allele, correct?

A. Well, one of the limitations of the test, for example, when you
look at Mr. Goldman's reference blood, you don't see a perfect,
absolute balance of those two alleles, and you can even see that in
our graphs.

So they're balanced, what we call balanced, but they're not perfectly
balanced. You might discern a slight difference, even though they're
all the alleles from one individual.

MR. P. BAKER: The exhibit board is 293.

MR. BLASIER: 293.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) That's another limitation of this technology,
correct?

A. Well, yes. The dots respond in a balanced fashion, but it's not
what I would call a perfect balance.

Q. Let me show you 2185.

Let me show it to you in person, make it easier.

These are some testing strips from your lab run out samples, among
others, in the Bronco?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

(Witness reviews Exhibit 2185.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, if we look at item 29, which is the stain
from the steering wheel -- correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And we zoom in a little bit on it, you called this 4. That faint
dot at 4, you called that as a real allele, correct?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. And you also -- I think you testified on direct that you're not
going to rule out that there might be a 1.3 there, as well.

Did you say that?

A. Excuse me. I don't see a 1.3 at all on the strip.

What I'm saying is that I couldn't absolutely rule out the possibility
that that weaker DNA -- this is a mixture, right? This is a mixture.
And I couldn't absolutely rule out the possibility that there was an
allele from a second individual who has a 4 dot, but who also might
have another dot that is just not showing up in that sample.

Q. So that would be even much less than a hint, would it not? It's not
even there?

A. It's -- well, the point of that is that this is a very technical
issue and it revolves around the fact that the main type is a 1.1,
1.2, and that there are similarities between those alleles with this
1.3 allele, such that when we do the PCR amplification, potentially we
could lose the 1.3 compared to the 4.

Q. There's no 1.3 there?

A. There is no 1.3.

Q. But you're not ruling out that that's a type 1.3, 4, are you?

A. I'm -- this is a very difficult thing to explain for me.

Q. Yes?

A. What I'm saying is, I could not rule out the possibility that there
was a weaker contribution; therefore a 1.3, comma 4 individual.

I certainly don't think there's anything in that sample that says, of
course, that's what happened. I'm not saying that at all. Because, for
example, you could have a second individual who's a type 4, 4 or a
second individual who is a 1.1, 4 or a 1.2, 4. There's a lot of
possibilities there.

So when I see this kind of sample, what it tells me to do is, let's
look at some other markers, get some additional data.

Q. This is completely consistent with a contributor who is a 4, comma
4?

A. Absolutely.

Q. And that doesn't match anybody that you know of in this case,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. That's unambiguous, isn't it? That's an unambiguous interpretation
of this, is it not?

A. Well, I think that is one interpretation, and it's certainly a
reasonable interpretation.

Q. Now, the dot here at number 4, is that a hint, a trace, weak, very
weak? How do you describe it?

A. That's a weak dot.

But the other thing that's important when you're looking at these dots
is, you look within one of these strips -- in other words, you study
this strip horizontally, you don't go up to the one above it, you
don't go down to the one below it. And if you look at this particular
strip we are amplifying, I believe, in this case, in this sample, on
the order of about 400 picograms, as I recall, of DNA, which is an
extremely minute amount of DNA.

And it's reflected in the fact that the dot that's to the right of the
letter C is also very weak. And so what we do on any given strip is,
we score the dots in relationship to that C dot.

So in this case, that C dot was present. It was weak; we called the 4
dot at the same level as the C dot. Whereas, if you look at the right
and see the 1.1 dot, you see that is greater than the C dot.

Q. But that 4 dot, you said, is a real allele and it's an allele, and
it's a very faint dot?

A. It's a real allele.

One of the things about this system is that, when you have a nominal,
what we call a nominal dot is those dots to the left, that those are
definitely real dots, and you can see them.

MR. BLASIER: Do you want to take that down?

(Indicating to TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, on the Bronco (indicating to Exhibit 293) --
on the Bronco, all of the stains that have the lower numbers, you're
aware, were collected on June 14, correct?

A. That's my understanding, that those were collected on the 14th.

Q. And the only sample that you say is consistent with any blood from
either of the victims is number 31, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Misstates the evidence, Your Honor. Number 33,
as well.

MR. BLASIER: 33?

MR. LAMBERT: 33.

MR. BLASIER: I don't see a 33.

Oh, all right.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) This is a sample from the carpet inside the car,
correct?

A. That's my understanding.

Q. That's 33, which I think is also 293; is that correct?

A. Yeah.

Q. And our number is 29, I believe.

Yes.

When that fiber was actually taken off the carpet, it was given the
number 293, correct?

A. As I understand it, the carpeting material was collected on the
14th, and then later it's given a number of 293.

I don't -- I don't know exactly the history there.

Q. Okay.

The actual sample here on the carpet that the fibers -- that were
taken off the carpet and then tested, that wasn't done until much
later than June 4; is that your understanding?

A. That's my understanding, yes.

Q. All of the -- all of the other ones with the low numbers were done
on June -- collected on June 14, correct?

A. That's my understanding, yes.

Q. And the only one of those that indicates the contents with either
of the victims is number 31, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. What is the -- what is the function of a positive control?

A. A positive control is used to evaluate if the test is working
properly.

Q. And a positive control is known DNA, you know, what the type is
going in, and you hope to see the same type on your testing strip,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And if you don't, that indicates a problem, doesn't it?

A. Well, it depends on how severe the irregularity is.

Q. Well, the tests are designed so that the positive controls come out
the same type that they are known to be, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And if they don't, that indicates something, doesn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. It indicates that there might be contamination, correct?

A. That's a possibility, yes.

Q. It indicates there might be cross-hybridization?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, cross-hybridization is something that happens when you put too
much DNA in the sample, correct?

A. That's one of the possibilities.

Also, if hybridization conditions are such that they're a little bit
off, you could get some cross-hybridization from that, too.

Q. When you say "a little bit off," you mean a little different than
what the manual says to do?

A. Well, they may be off by, say, a degree or something like that in
temperature, something like that, but just slightly, slightly off.

Q. But that can be a very important difference, can it not, Mr. Sims?

A. I'd say anything more than a degree could be significant, yes.

Q. So the test is designed, if you do it precisely the way the manual
says to do it, you should not get cross-hybridization, correct?

A. (No verbal response.)

Q. Isn't that correct?

A. No, I'd say that's not correct. It is a matter of degree.

In our laboratory, you will sometimes see traces of
cross-hybridization, and you can still understand that as being
cross-hybridization; it doesn't change the types.

Q. But it can also be contamination, can it not?

A. You always have to be concerned with contamination. That's why you
run a lot of these negative strips that have no DNA.

Q. Okay.

When you ran the sample for items 30 and 31 from the Bronco console,
you ran a positive control, did you not?

A. Well, excuse me. I believe these were actually run by Renee
Montgomery when the typing was done on the 30 or 31.

Q. But it's done in your lab?

A. Yes.

Q. You've seen this board before, have you not?

A. I believe I have, yes.

Q. And this is Criminal 1279.

The above control in that run showed up a very faint 1.3 dot, did it
not?

A. On which? I can't quite see.

Q. You can step down, if you like.

The positive control.

(Referring to Exhibit entitled Bronco console stains collected
6/14/94.)

A. No; that was negative, if I'm reading the right set.

Which date is this?

Q. When you ran 30 and 31.

A. Yes. I'm sorry. I'm looking at the right page now.

There was -- there was what was called a hint of that 1.3 dot there.

Q. You can see it; it's very faint, but it's there, isn't it?

A. I think you can see something there, yes.

Q. That's one of the shortcomings of this test, trying to make these
kinds of assessments of whether there's even a dot there, isn't it?

A. Well, the shortcoming is when one tries to overinterpret these
results, clearly one can see what the dot pattern is.

Q. Okay.

The positive control is a type 1.1, 4 it has no 1.3 in it?

A. That's correct.

Q. That's an indication that either contamination or
cross-hybridization occurred, correct?

A. I would say cross-hybridization is most likely due to the fact that
the other controls, the negative controls, are all negative.

Q. Mr. Sims, can it -- it can be contamination, as well, can it not?

A. It could be, yes.

Q. What is a QC sample?

A. A quality control sample. We have QC samples. These are samples
that the analyst takes and processes at the same time as the evidence
samples are being processed.

And those samples are blind to the analyst. The analyst doesn't know
what the correct results are.

Q. But you know -- I'm sorry?

A. Well, we did something like 20-some of those in this particular
case, and we got them all right.

Q. QRC -- you got them all right.

QC 816, what was the correct type to QC 816?

A. That was a 1.2, 1.2.

Q. But you got a 1.1 and a 1.3, didn't you?

A. There were hints of those dots, yes, that was stained.

Q. You can't explain a 1.1 by cross-hybridization, can you?

A. There can be some cross-hybridization, but it's more likely to be,
more like what we call DX amplification.

Q. This is another artifact that we're just going to say it's not DNA?

A. You have to be concerned with that; you have to realize that this
can show up in these typing results; that's why you don't want to
interpret those very faint dots.

Q. Let's look at LAPD item number 31.

A. Okay.

Q. This has a very faint 1.3 dot, does it not?

A. I think that one's different.

Q. You think it's different. Okay.

You called this one a real allele, did you not?

A. Well, I did.

Q. Okay?

A. Ms. Montgomery did.

Q. Mr. Sims, thank you.

You didn't?

A. I did.

Q. Whereas, the 1.3 here and here, you said we're going -- those were
okay; that's not DNA; we pass the test, right?

A. I think on this particular set of strips, that the controls were
such that --

Q. Mr. Sims --

MR. LAMBERT: Your Honor, I'd like to ask him --

THE COURT: He's he trying to answer your question, Mr. Blasier.

MR. BLASIER: My question had called for a yes or no.

THE COURT: I don't think so. You said he passed the test. He's a
trying to explain to you what he passed.

MR. BLASIER: Let me withdraw the question.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You didn't run it over again, did you?

A. No, we did not.

Q. Even though you got hints or traces or whatever you want to call
them, of alleles that shouldn't be there, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Thank you.

A. Yes.

Q. Now, LAPD item 30, there's a dot at 1.3 there, as well, correct?

A. Is this is now what LAPD item?

Q. 30.

A. Which is our item -- is that 17?

Q. I'm not sure what your number is.

A. Let me check that.

Yes, that's our item 17.

Q. Okay.

Did you call that an allele?

A. No, that was considered too faint to be considered an allele.

Q. Okay.

Now, development time out here.

This figure represents the lengths of time that you allowed these
strips to soak in the substance that has the DNA, correct, to develop
the dots?

A. Well it's a color development. At that point, the DNA is -- has
already come and gone, at that point there. Then there's a color
development phase that goes on.

Q. And in fact, the lengths of time that you use to develop these
things can affect how intense the dots are, can't they?

A. Well, once you get to about 20 minutes, there's not much change
after that.

I mean there -- most of this result takes place within the first five
or ten minutes. But in our laboratory, we let them go from 20 to 30
minutes.

Q. There are differences, are there not, with different development
treatment times in terms of the intensity of the dots?

Isn't there?

A. I think once you get out to 25 minutes, you're very close to a
plateau that's not going to change significantly.

Q. There was a paper that came out not too long ago that showed that
if you let these develop more than 20 minutes, you could have some
dots that actually disappear, correct? Particularly from the
polymarker system?

A. That polymarker, I don't recall seeing that in the DQ alpha
literature.

Q. Do you recall a change in protocol being made in the DQ alpha, as
well as the polymarker testing, because of that phenomenon?

A. No, not in our laboratory. I don't -- I don't know of that.

Q. Okay.

MR. LEONARD: Do you have another board, Bob?

MR. BLASIER: Yeah. Let's actually keep that one.

Put this one up.

(The instrument herein referred to as "Bundy Blood Drop, LAPD item 52,
DOJ Typing."s was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
1281.)

MR. LEONARD: Can you see this?

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) This is board number 1281. And these are testing
strips for Bundy drop number 52, correct?

A. Yes; that's the first time that 52 was tested.

I did a retest on that, also.

Q. And the bottom one is the retest.

You want to take a look at that?

You rehybridized it?

A. Yes, that's it.

Q. Okay.

Now, 52 is a Bundy blood drop that you have said is consistent with
O.J. Simpson and only O.J. Simpson, correct?

A. Well our -- our testing was only DQ alpha and D1S80. It was the
RFLP testing was done and Cellmark.

Q. Your testing -- your conclusion was that it's consistent with O.J.
Simpson and not either victim, or not some third party with a
different type, correct?

You call that as a 1.1, 1.2?

A. Well, among the three principals; that's correct

Q. The 1.3 dot lit up on that strip, as well, did it not?

A. Yes, it did.

Q. You decided that's not DNA, correct?

A. Well, I --

Q. Isn't that correct --

A. I made that --

Q. -- Mr. Sims?

A. No, because I did a retest on that.

Q. This test strip, you said there's no 1.3 DNA in there, correct?

A. Once I did the retest, I was convinced that it was
cross-hybridization.

Q. The retest also showed a 1.3 dot, did it not?

Very faint, but it's there, isn't it?

A. I think -- I thought I saw something on that one that I called -- I
guess you say it was very faint traces in the wording, but there's
barely something there, yes.

Q. Mr. Sims, isn't it accurate that in deciding these faint dots, you
interpret them in a way that helps the side that you're working for?

A. No, I don't think so.

Q. You don't think so?

A. No.

Q. So, picking up the other board, board 1279, the 1.3 dot that you
said was real and the one on the other board which is not real, they
are very similar in intensity, are they not?

A. I would say that they are similar, yes.

Q. Thank you.

Now, you also, as you said before, did your own typing on the victims'
reference samples, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And again, this was from the -- from the cards, not from -- you
weren't sent the reference file, correct?

A. That's correct.

These victims' samples relate to the swatches that we tested.

Q. Looking at board 1275, isn't it true, Mr. Sims, that you found in
Nicole Brown Simpson's reference sample, a possible 1.3 allele and a
possible 1.2 allele?

A. I'll have to look at my notes on that.

I identified a trace in the 1.2 dot and what I call a faint trace,
which is a weaker result, in the 1.3.

Q. Either of those could have come from Nicole Brown Simpson, correct?

A. Well, as far as I know, no. She's a 1.1, 1.1.

Q. And the only source among the people that have a 1.2 is O.J.
Simpson, correct?

A. Of those individuals.

Q. Correct?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. And one Goldman's sample, you also found an indication of a
possible 1.2 and a 1.3 -- I'm sorry -- and a 1.3?

A. No.

Q. I'm sorry. 1.1?

A. Yes. In the 1.1, there was what we call a faint trace in the 1.1.

Q. The only source among these three people of a 1.1 and a 1.2 in Mr.
Goldman's reference sample is O.J. Simpson, correct?

A. Well, the 1.1 is Nicole Brown's type, also.

Q. Could this have come from either, consistent with either, correct?

A. Well, I mean, that's a very hypothetical type of question, I think.

Q. This is the result you reported, is it not?

A. But --

Q. Is it not?

A. I'm looking at the photograph.

And clearly, I -- I -- perhaps we should pass this around to the jury
-- but these dots are extremely faint, and I don't think they're
necessarily representative of any true alleles showing up.

These look like the types that you see from cross-hybridization or the
DX phenomenon that I mentioned.

Q. I'm sorry. We'll call these "not real," right?

A. Well, I don't believe these are the real alleles, and I think --

Q. Thank you.

A. If you look at the photo, you can see that.

THE COURT: Let's take ten minutes.

(Recess.)

THE COURT:

(The jurors returned to their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Sims, as we said a few minutes ago, the hints
and traces of dots that I had on my board that we just talked about,
those were taken from your laboratory's results, correct?

A. I believe they were, except there was that one use of the word
"vary." I don't think that was from my actual worksheet.

Q. Well, that's one of their boards. I was talking about the Bronco
board.

The testing strips that were on it had traces and hints?

A. You were showing --

Q. Yes, I --

A. Yes, I think by and large, that was the language.

I didn't look at each one against my recent sheets, but that sounds
familiar.

Q. You would agree, would you not, that the problems of interpretation
of these things become more complicated when you're dealing with very
small quantities of DNA and faint dots like this?

A. Yes.

Q. And sometimes it's not unusual to look at a picture and not see any
dots at all, and then look at it in a little different light, and all
of a sudden, you see a hint of something, correct?

A. Well we -- in our laboratory, we really struggle with dots. We
really look at them in such a way that we don't want to overlook
anything. We call it very close.

We look to see if there's anything at all there, we'll call it. We're
very -- what's the word -- persnickety about that.

I don't know if there's another right word.

Q. Is -- one of the reasons for that is the only thing that can light
up any of those dots is DNA?

A. The only thing would be DNA, unless there's something totally wrong
with the dot; that's correct, yes.

Q. Okay.

So if you see a hint, a trace, a smudge or little tiny dot, you know
that there is DNA on there; it may be from contamination, may be
cross-hybridization, may be a DX gene, but you know it's DNA?

A. There's definitely a dot there; that's due to DNA.

Q. Now, getting back to the Bronco for a quick second --

A. Okay.

Q. Stain number 303 was a stain that was taken from the console area
on August 24. You're aware of that, are you not?

A. That's my understanding; it was somewhere at that time.

Q. And stain number 30 is a stain taken from the same area or similar
area on June 14, correct?

A. I believe it's about that time, yes.

Q. Now, is it accurate that you found more DNA in 303 than you did in
30?

A. I'd have to check my notes on that.

It's 303 versus?

Q. 30.

A. 30. Okay.

(Witness reviews notes.)

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. Thank you.

Now, I want to talk about the Bundy drops for a minute.

The swatches that were sent to you from LAPD for the Bundy drops were
in bindles, correct? In envelopes?

A. Yes.

Q. None of those bindles had any initials of Andrea Mazzola, did they?

A. I don't recall seeing AM on any of those Bundy bindles.

Q. Now, one of those bindles for Bundy drop number 47, you made note
that there was a transfer -- a wet transfer of a blood stain on the
bindle itself. Do you recall that?

A. Yes. I believe that was the right number, but I'd like to check my
notes on that.

Q. Okay.

A. The number 47 is the one you mentioned?

Q. Correct.

A. Yes.

Q. And that's consistent which a swatch being put in that bindle while
it's still wet, is it not?

A. Yes.

In other words, there would be some dampness to it that would transfer
the blood to the bindle material.

Q. And I want to close by asking you some questions about the socks.

When you got the socks, you could see several stains with your naked
eye, could you not?

A. Well, when I got the socks, I saw, for example, cut-out areas and
circled areas, so I knew to look at those areas first.

Q. You could see them with the naked eye, couldn't you?

A. I could see them with the naked eye to some extent where I -- when
I knew where to look, yes.

Q. Okay. And you got the socks approximately when?

A. That would be in September, I believe.

Q. Okay.

A. That was September 26 of 1994, we received the socks.

Q. Now, you testified on direct, I believe, that you saw part of the
ankle stain of the -- one of the socks had a big cut-out on it.

A. Yes.

Q. You were actually sent some of the patches that had been cut out of
that center area, correct?

A. Yes. There were cuts in a tube.

Q. There's the large sample that RFLP results indicated 11 probes, I
think, Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And you also observed, if we look at a sock and consider a sock as
having four surfaces on it, the outside, the inside, and the inside of
the other side, and the outside?

A. Yes.

Q. One, two, three, four. We can talk about surfaces one, two, three,
and four?

A. Yes.

Q. If we define the area of the cut-out as surfaces one and two -- you
with me?

A. Okay.

Q. You saw blood on the opposite side of the sock on surface three
that corresponded to that cut-out area, did you not?

A. Well, I don't think that really characterizes what I saw.

In fact, when I did that examination, what I noted in my notes is that
it did not appear that there was any transfer to that third surface.
There were some fibrils with blood on them that had flaked off; and it
had appeared to me, once you start cutting this sock material the,
fibrils can come -- they start to ravel, basically.

Q. I thought you said on direct, you saw some blood on that third
surface.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Misstates the evidence; didn't say anything
about it.

THE COURT: It's a question.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You didn't see any blood on the fourth surface,
did you?

A. I did not.

Q. Now, you were sent four swatches from that big cut-out stain, were
you not?

A. I believe there were four, yes.

Q. And you did what's called a yield gel, which helps you determine
how much DNA is on those stains; and you did that process on three of
those swatches, correct?

A. I believe that's correct.

Q. And on those three swatches, which aren't even the entire stain,
you found an estimated 1315 nanograms of DNA, correct?

A. Something like that.

But I'd like a second to check my notes on that point.

Q. Sure.

A. Yes, I took three of the four pieces and I -- after I ran my yield
gel, I had about 1350 nanograms left.

Q. And of all of the stains, I think you said there was 108, or over
100 that you processed in this case, that was by far the largest
amount of DNA in any stain, correct, other than the reference samples?

A. I believe that's correct.

Q. Thank you.

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't put any EDTA on those swatches, did you?

A. No.

MR. BLASIER: No further questions.

THE COURT: Anything further?

MR. LAMBERT: Just a little bit, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: I might need a moment to get some charts out.

(Pause in proceedings.)

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Mr. Sims, Mr. Blasier was asking you some questions before about
cross-hybridization and your reading of some of these DQ alpha strips.

I'd like you to explain to the jury this cross-hybridization
phenomenon.

A. Yes.

The cross-hybridization phenomenon can occur because some of those
alleles are very similar in sequence and the differences are very
slight among the probes that we're looking at.

So, for example, sometimes you will have samples that are similar in
their sequence because the sequence that's on the probe that's, say
for example, the 1.3 probe, so that you can get a little bit of a back
-- what we call a background or cross-hybridization result.

Q. And by sequence, Dr. Cotton had explained during her testimony that
one of the ways that we can distinguish between people's DNA is by the
sequence of the base pairs.

And are you saying that the sequence of the base pairs in these 1.1,
1.2, 1.3 alleles is not that far apart?

A. Well, that's correct.

And so what you can see is that this is not always an all-or-none
phenomenon. I mean, anything that happens in chemistry, we will
generally have a little bit going one way, or all we have is some of
it going one way.

But I'll also have some going such that you could see
cross-hybridization. That's why it's a weak reaction.

Q. And how many DQ alpha strips did you say you've reviewed in your
career?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I would say hundreds of them.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) And as part of the system at the Department of
Justice, when somebody makes a call on one of the DQ alpha strips,
like was done on item 31 here on the Bronco, how many people look at
that DQ alpha strip before it goes out into the Department of Justice
report?

A. There would be three individuals. The first person who does the --
actually typing analysis; then we have a second reader look at them;
and then a supervisor then reviews them before they're reported.

Q. And did that happen in regard to item 31?

A. Yes, it did.

Q. And you concurred in your professional judgment with this reading
of item 31?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Did the --

MR. BLASIER: I'm going to object. This misstates the testimony. He
didn't -- he said -- he didn't say very weak.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. BLASIER: That misstates his testimony. He didn't concur with the
way it's characterized on the chart.

MR. LAMBERT: You mean the word "very" wasn't --

MR. BLASIER: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Take out the word "very;" call it weak.

A. Yes.

Q. Did you concur with that?

A. Yes.

Q. Did your supervisor?

A. Yes.

Q. By the way, when that item 31 was read, who else was present
besides the Department of Justice personnel?

A. Dr. Blake.

Q. Dr. Blake, representing Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, Mr. Blasier also showed you the reference chart that he has,
showing the testing of the reference samples?

A. Yes.

Q. And trying to imply in his questions that there was some
contamination in those reference samples; do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. You wanted to show us the actual strip for that?

A. Yes, I would like to display that.

Q. Okay.

Explain to the jury what we're looking at here.

A. This --

THE COURT REPORTER: Does this have a number, please?

MR. LAMBERT: We'll have to get the Court number for this. I'm not sure
what it is right now.

I'm actually using Mr. Sims' copy of this, but there is --

MR. PETROCELLI: You mean the exhibit number?

MR. LAMBERT: There is an exhibit number. I have to supply it later.

THE WITNESS: What we're looking at is a photograph of the typing
strips. And this is just a portion of those strips.

You'll recall those; there were nine dots all along that. So it's a --
we're looking at a couple of the dots.

This is Mr. Goldman's reference blood sample extract that's being
tested for DQ alpha type. 1.3 allele is present. We can't see it over
here, but it also has a 4 allele; and those two combined to light up
this dot also.

As you'll recall, in the cross-examination we talked about there being
some faint activity in the 1.1 region of that dot, and I wanted to
show just what -- how faint this is, what we're talking about.

In other words, the point is, I'll let you draw your own conclusion,
certainly, but it's extremely faint.

(Witness refers to typing strip.)

Q. On this strip down here, do you see any activity on these two dot
areas?

MR. BRASIER: I'm going to object; there isn't any foundation about
what that strip is.

THE COURT: Overruled. I think's he's just illustrating faintness of
dots.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

There is the strip for Nicole Brown. Her type is a 1.1, 1.1. What we
were talking about is being maybe very faint in the background, was in
this 1.2 region and the 1.3 region. And if I really strained my eyes,
I might be able to see something in those regions, but it's just --
it's extremely faint.

There's another point of this. This is what we're talking about.
There's no doubt to me about what these particular types are. And
sometimes you do see this weak background, and that's just to show you
how weak the background really is.

Q. And in your professional judgment, Mr. Sims, was there any
contamination in the reference samples?

A. No. I think that's a pretty far-fetched idea, particularly when one
remembers that these reference samples contain very large amounts of
DNA.

And so that if you were to take any kind of traces of contaminating
DNA, those contaminating traces would have to be extremely large to
even show up in a reference sample, because now we're talking about a
sample from this, the victims' reference samples that have a lot of
DNA associated with them, micrograms.

And so that any contamination to show up, even at a trace level, would
have to be extremely -- would have to be extremely substantial.

Q. And you don't see that in these results?

A. No.

Q. Now, let me turn to another subject.

Mr. Blasier talked to you a lot about the amount of nanograms in
various evidence items.

Is it, in your experience, routine to have varying amounts of DNA in
the evidence samples that you receive?

A. Yes. We see a great deal of variation of cross-samples.

Q. What kind of factors can affect how much DNA is in a particular
sample?

A. Well, it goes to how much was collected, how uniform the sample is
across a swatch, the kind of micro environment the stain is in, how
long this stain's been out there. All those things are factors that
could affect that. And so we typically see a tremendous amount of
variation.

Q. And the Department of Justice Laboratory, did it also get all of
the swatches for any particular evidence item, or did it just get some
portion of it?

A. I think it was both. In some cases, we got portions. In other
cases, I believe we got almost all, but I'm not sure of that.

Q. For example, item number 52, where Mr. Blasier was comparing the
amount of nanograms in 52 to 117, which is the back gate, Cellmark
actually got swatches for item 52, as well?

A. Yes. They -- for example, on that item, they certainly got the
lion's share of those. We got little bits of cuttings, two little bits
of cuttings.

Q. When you were sharing, I think you said something like 3.5
nanograms that you got in your item 52, that doesn't take into account
the 200 nanograms that Dr. Cotton talked about that she saw in item
52; is that right?

A. Well, she tested different portions of swatches, basically.

Q. Okay.

Now, let's talk a little bit more about this concept of identifying
bands in the RFLP test.

(Counsel displays chart entitled "Results of DNA Analysis, Rockingham
Socks.")

Q. Mr. Blasier asked you how you declare band matches using the RFLP
test.

A. Yes.

Q. Is that something that is done by DNA laboratories other than
yours?

A. Yes; it's done by DNA laboratories all over the country.

Q. And for how long has it been done that way?

A. That RFLP procedure with that type of approach has been done, now,
for -- going on ten years.

Q. And is the technique that you're -- that you have described, a
commonly accepted technique in the scientific community?

A. Yes.

Q. In fact, haven't there been some national committees that have
discussed that very technique?

A. Yes.

Q. National committees of what organization?

A. Well, the National Research Counsel, for example, has issued two
reports.

Q. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

A. And they've basically validated the procedure; they've said it's a
proper procedure.

Q. And when you do this, these band matches to declare a match between
an evidence item and a possible person, do you rely on just one probe
match, or do you always require more than that?

A. Well, we get -- you know, we get several matches. We wouldn't rely
on just one.

Q. So, and the more matches you get, the more evidentiary value that
it has?

A. Yes.

Q. So when you get a nine-probe match like you did on the socks,
matching to Mr. Simpson, with the frequency of 1 in 57 billion to 1 in
150 billion, what level of confidence do you have in that match?

A. I have a great deal of confidence because if it weren't from that
particular individual, or there was really not a true match, you would
see some shifting at some point that they were clearly different.

They were not.

Q. Now, one final point.

Mr. Blasier asked you some questions about the tests that you did on
the socks.

And I'll put this up, just to remind everyone what you're talking
about.

First I've got to turn this on. (indicating to Elmo).

Let's see if you can -- if we can focus this.

This is my first time.

MR. BAKER: Don't give it to Phil.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Okay.

Now, you tested -- compared in your tests here, some portion of the
sock evidence to get these bands to some of Nicole Brown's blood;
isn't that right? Blood from Nicole Brown?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the comparison that you made, what was the source of the
Nicole Brown reference blood that you used?

A. Those samples, it was my understanding, were the ones that were
made by the coroner's office. In other words, the stain was made by
the coroner's office because there was some indication that the other
reference samples, that the other stains that had been made, had some
problems with degradation.

Q. So, in other words, what Dr. Cotton testified about, which was the
reference vial taken by the coroner that was degraded, that's not what
you --

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Misstates the testimony.

THE COURT: That's not what you tested?

THE WITNESS: No?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Misstates the testimony. Dr. Cotton never said
she tested the reference vial.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Dr. Cotton testified that the blood she tested,
which was taken from the reference vial, was degraded. That isn't that
same source of blood, is it?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. That misstates her testimony.

MR. LAMBERT: That's exactly her testimony.

THE COURT: Show me where it's not.

MR. BAKER: Why doesn't he show where it is?

MR. LAMBERT: Can we have the answer?

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) This isn't the same source, is it?

A. It's a different reference blood stain is the point.

Q. So can you explain for us, to make that point clear, what -- how
the coroner's office sometimes takes a swatch and a reference vial?

Are you familiar with that procedure?

A. Yes. I --

MR. BLASIER: Objection. No foundation; outside the scope.

THE COURT: He says he's familiar. Lay a foundation.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) How are you familiar with that procedure, sir?

A. Well, I'm familiar with some of the operations of the coroner's
office, having worked there at one time; but also, more presently, my
familiarity is with how they prepare samples from homicide victims,
for example, and they make blood stains on cloth.

And that's what I was informed was the situation here, was that there
were these blood stains that the coroner's office had made on the
cloth, and we tested those because the ones that were on the Fitzo
cards showed some degradation.

Q. The reason that you asked for the blood stains on the cloth is
because the Fitzco cards taken from the reference vials showed
degradation?

A. Well, I -- that's correct, except I don't think we asked for it; I
think there was some information from the District Attorney's office,
on talking to Cellmark, that there was this problem.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you. No further questions.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Mr. Sims, the reference vial wasn't sent to Dr. Cotton, was it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. No foundation.

Q. BY MR. BLASIER: Do you know?

A. I -- I know that they did not.

I know what they did receive. They did receive some swatches of
reference samples. That's what I do know.

Q. All right. And the swatch -- and the surface that is used, if it's
a different surface, you can get a different quality of DNA, correct?

A. If it's -- you mean a card versus a piece of cloth, for example?

Q. Or card, piece of cloth versus a vial.

A. Well, again, your example, we talked earlier where it sat in the
vial for longer.

That could cause a difference, yes.

Q. To degrade. So if you took blood out of the vial on day one, it
might be higher quality than if you took it out on day thirty?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And the cloth swatches that you got from the coroner's office, do you
have any idea whether they were made from the reference vial or they
were done at the autopsy from blood directly from the victims?

A. I don't know that personally.

Q. Now, Mr. Lambert asked you about the fact that some of these
alleles are very close together in terms of their base pair sequence.
Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's what can cause cross-hybridization, a DX gene; those are
alleles that you -- one allele you can excuse for a another one
because they are close together?

A. The DX is another phenomenon. But, for example, in the
cross-hybridization, there's not that much difference, say, between
some of the probes and sequences on the alleles.

Q. That's why you can have confusion between a 1.1 and a 1.3. You can
have a 1.3 show up that's not really there in the sample, but it's
cross-hybridization from the 1.1 or the 1?

A. Again, you're talking about degrees of showing up.

When you put it that way, for example, all we still see, the true
type, but you may see some of the background reaction.

Q. And in this case, where we have the 1.1 alleles involved and the
1.3 alleles involved, that becomes more of a consideration because
those are the ones that can get confused, correct?

A. Well, yes, to answer your question.

Q. Thank you.

And the reference sample might chart the typing on the reference
sample. Those results are from your documentation, are they not, the
hints and the traces?

A. Yes.

Q. You saw them there, didn't you?

A. When I looked at them in the laboratory, I saw some very faint
background dots, yes.

Q. And only DNA will cause that to light up unless the strips's bad,
right?

A. Yes; only DNA will cause that.

Q. Now, let's talk about -- Mr. Lambert asked you questions about the
formula, the product rule --

A. Yes.

Q. -- in one of the national commissions, he asked you about the
National Research Council.

Tell me what that body is.

A. The National Research Council is a group of scientists -- I don't
know all the administrative details -- but what they do is, they form
committees to study questions in the -- scientific questions in the
public interest; for example, a recent study they did had related to
the effects of living near high voltage lines, that sort of thing.

They may do a study on something like is fluoride is good to have in
the toothpaste for dental reasons.

In this case, they addressed the issue of the use of DNA in the
forensic context.

Q. And the committee is made up of highly regarded highly respected
scientists, correct?

A. Yes, they are scientists. Sometimes they're lawyers and judges,
also.

Q. But they're represented by population geneticists, molecular
biologists, statisticians, and people that are knowledgeable about
these kinds of statistical ideas, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the National Research Council did a lengthy study and they
issued a report called the NRC report, did they not?

A. Yes; that was in 1992 was the first report.

Q. And they concluded that you shouldn't use the product rule because
of population substructure potential problems because -- did they
suggest a different formula?

A. Well, they still incorporate in the product rule, but they used a
different formula for the allele individual band frequencies.

Q. That's called the ceiling principle, right?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And if you use the ceiling principle that they recommended, you
come up with much more -- much different numbers, don't you?

A. Well, the numbers, you can move the decimal point around a few -- a
few degrees, but the numbers are still extremely significant.

Q. You can get vast differences in the magnitude of the numbers by
applying the ceiling principle, rather than the product rule, can't
you, Mr. Sims, depending on the particular alleles; but that can
happen, can't it?

A. It could vary like across several of these, that when you look at
this many loci, you can see it shift a few decimal places, yes.

Q. That created tremendous controversy in the scientific community
about using the product rule, didn't it?

A. No, it created a controversy about whether or not that approach to
the allele frequency is correct. Nobody ever challenged the use of the
product rule in those NRC reports.

Q. There has been litigation in the last five years, at least, that
you've been involved in -- that you've been involved in on this very
point, as to whether you can use the product rule because of
population substructure problems.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, it's your job to litigate.

(Laughter.)

MR. BLASIER: And we win a lot of time, don't we?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative; irrelevant.

THE COURT: I'll sustain that.

Q. BY MR. BLASIER: The NRC appointed a committee of a second set of
scientists to do another report, and they came up with a different
conclusion, didn't they, about which formula to use?

A. They abandoned the idea of the ceiling principle; they felt that
was not a good approach.

Q. They suggested some other factor, adjust for population
substructure that hadn't been suggested in the first report, correct?

A. Well, they --

Q. Isn't that correct?

A. They did on some of the PCR markers, for example, when we're
looking at very limited discrete allele systems, but they basically
concurred with this approach that we've used in the RFLP analysis.

Q. There are studies going on to determine whether population
substructure is a statistically significant problem when you use the
product rule, correct?

A. Well, now, you've got a lot in that question. Because you talk
about statistical significance and whether or not there's practically
any significance -- I don't think there's any argument now that
practically it's not significant.

Q. Mr. Sims, my question was --

MR. LAMBERT: He was in the middle of his answer.

MR. BLASIER: I move to strike it as nonresponsive.

THE COURT: I think it's responsive.

MR. BLASIER: I'm sorry?

THE COURT: He is responsive.

MR. BLASIER: Go ahead.

THE COURT: You may finish.

THE WITNESS: We talk about statistical significance versus the
practical significance. And the NRC second report has basically said
that this approach that we used in this case is a valid approach.

Q. And the concept you're talking about is, there were studies done to
determine whether there were significant differences among subgroups
of people that might affect the use of the product rule, correct?

A. Well there's been -- more data has been gathered and analyzed, yes.

Q. There's been a lot of work done in that area, hasn't there?

A. Yes.

Q. Those studies have shown that, yes, there is a statistically
significant difference among subgroups of people that affect your
ability to use the product rule, correct?

A. Statistically significant?

There may be some statistical significance there, yes.

But now we get very -- it gets very complicated here, because we're
talking about differences, for example, among say, African persons
versus Caucasians, and then there's differences there, too, with
regards to -- say you know you're European group rest is another
European, something like that.

The critical point, though, in all this is that the variations that's
really out there is among individuals.

It's where the variation is, in other words, sure there are some
differences, for example, between whites and blacks, but the real
variations among us as individuals is vast amounts.

Q. There are studies that showed statistically significant
differences. When they came out, you folks in the forensic community
came up with a concept of well, we'll say they aren't forensically
significant, didn't you?

A. Well, I didn't invent that term.

Q. That was invented by somebody.

A. Somebody came up with it, yes. Not me.

MR. BLASIER: Thank you. Nothing further.

MR. LAMBERT: Just a couple questions on this final point, Mr. Sims.

FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. The 1996 most recent NRC report, it endorsed the product rule that
you applied here, didn't it, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Even the 1992 report, that did endorse the product rule?

A. Yes.

Q. These little nuances between subgroups, would that change
dramatically the 1 in 57 billion to the 1 in 150 billion number that
you have up there?

A. No.

MR. LAMBERT: No further questions.

THE COURT: Okay. Thank you.

THE WITNESS: Thank you.

THE COURT: Any more witnesses for today?

MR. LAMBERT: Just RFAs, Your Honor, is what we have for today, which
we could do -- it's possibly -- maybe we could talk a little bit about
how we can shorten it. I can do it maybe in a half-hour.

THE COURT: 1:30, ladies and gentlemen.

Don't talk about the case; don't form or express any opinions.

(At 12:00 P.M., a luncheon recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the
same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA;
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1996
1:37 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court outside the
presence of the jury:)

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, we wanted to go over scheduling.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: The -- we gave Your Honor, and the defense, a list of
witnesses for next week. They include Mr. Simpson. We anticipate that
he would have to take the stand on Friday, if the other witness go
according to plan.

Mr. Kelly and Mr. Baker had a conversation where apparently there was
going to be resistance on the defense making Mr. Simpson available
here.

As a courtesy, Mr. Kelly and Mr. Baker are going to go down and talk
to the judge in Orange County. They'd like to do that on Monday to see
if Mr. Simpson can be excused from that proceeding for a couple of
days to testify here; or just generally, talk to the judge about it.

But in any event, I just want to make it clear for the record that
we're not a party to that proceeding. We've asked Mr. Simpson to be
here and to testify, and I have given advance notice and, I guess, we
can take it up with Your Honor if we have a problem.

But we're expecting to see Mr. Simpson in this courtroom some time
near the end of next week and maybe a day or so on to the following
week.

Now, I will also add that next Friday is dark, I'm told, in the Orange
County proceeding. In any event, so that Friday may not present a
problem.

The next week we have two court days, Monday and Tuesday, I think, Mr.
Simpson in our case. You know he will be on the stand for a couple of
days, thereabouts. And then after Mr. Simpson, we have a handful of
other witnesses, but they're quite short in duration. And we think the
trial, our side of the case, will wrap up not long thereafter.

THE COURT: Well, how about the other witnesses that you have on this
list for next week?

How long are they going to be?

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, all of them are going to be fairly short, except
Colin Yamauchi, I'd say, is about a half-a-day witness, and Bill
Bodziak is about a half-day witness, sort of like what we had with Dr.
Cotton and Dr. Douglas Deedrick.

And the other witnesses that follow Bodziak and Yamauchi are shorter.
Some of them are very short. Okay. Kato Kaelin and Alan Park, I would
say, are also about half-day witnesses as well.

So I think that if all those witnesses go according to plan, we'll end
up coming to Friday, perhaps, and not having any witnesses except for
Mr. Simpson.

But it may turn out that those other witnesses take up the whole week.
In any event, I wanted to alert the Court to the problem.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: In addition, Monday afternoon, Mr. Baker and Mr. Kelly
wanted to go down and talk to the Orange County judge. And I wanted to
know what the Court's plan was to hold session on Monday or to maybe
kick the trial over until Tuesday morning to accommodate their desire
to go see the judge.

I'm not going -- we don't have any standing in that case. I just what
a clarification whether we're supposed to be here Monday and have
trial or not.

MR. P. BAKER: Our point is, Your Honor, it's already been discussed
with you, he's been available for four weeks. They put themselves
behind this eight ball, and the point is, if we want to be dark Monday
afternoon, we can continue with Yamauchi. We don't need to take a down
day on Monday and it was my chief belief as of an hour ago that Mr.
Bodziak was available Monday afternoon. I guess he's not available
Monday afternoon but I would just ask that we be able to do Yamauchi
until he's finished on Monday.

Bob Baker has to go down in the afternoon. We can cover the fort here
for a couple hours. I don't think we need to be dark on Monday.

MR. KELLY: Well, in all fairness to the younger Mr. Baker, I've spoken
to his father.

What we had discussed was perhaps coming in the morning, taking care
of whatever miscellaneous matters we had in the late morning, heading
down there, being dark later in the morning and in the afternoon so we
could start right on schedule Tuesday and go right through with
witnesses.

As Mr. Petrocelli indicated, that if we worked it that way, that it's
anticipated that we would be getting to Mr. Simpson on Friday, which
is a dark day down in the Orange County proceeding.

But Mr. Baker indicated that he was going to possibly oppose our
application for an adjournment and he wanted to be down there with me
when the application was made. He agreed that we'd head down there,
subject to your approval, late Monday morning, Judge.

THE COURT: How long is that matter supposed to be?

MR. P. BAKER: What I understand, Mr. Petrocelli may know better than
I, I'm not very familiar on family law.

THE COURT: I don't mean the Monday session, I think -- how long is
that proceeding?

MR. P. BAKER: A week and a half.

MR. KELLY: My understanding is it may be as long as a month. Mr.
Simpson was the first witness down there. He already completed with
his testimony. The Court is dark this Friday. It's my understanding
there are a couple of independent experts set to testify the following
Monday and Tuesday -- Tuesday, which I think arguably really doesn't
require Mr. Simpson's presence down there. Just like up here, he
hasn't been present on many occasions.

MR. P. BAKER: Judge, that custody battle is very important. They've
had four weeks to call him. Now, you've said and ruled that it's up to
the Orange County judge. If the Orange County judge makes that
determination, then we'd be certainly -- we'd certainly abide by it.
But there's no reason to have him pulled out of there if the Orange
County judge doesn't find that it's proper.

We brought this up two weeks ago with the court, that he was available
and ready to testify and they knew it.

MR. KELLY: Judge, we made -- we indicated we weren't -- at that time
we indicated that we were going to make, at least -- so it's two weeks
that the guardianship was going on the week of the 4th and the 11th,
and those weeks have come and gone.

He's been down there. If he has his whole week down there once again,
and we're just trying to, after three weeks of that case, put the
defense on notice, indicate that we've come to our order of proof
where we intend to call him and workout an accommodation between this
court and the court down there.

THE COURT: What's the name of the judge down there?

MR. P. BAKER: I don't know.

MR. KELLY: I don't have that on me.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you get it for the judge, John?

MR. KELLY: Sure. I can get a call, and -- you want me to make a call?
I can make a call right from the courtroom.

AUDIENCE MEMBER MANUEL MEDRANO: You know, I know the name of the
judge, if you like. Nancy Wiebon Stock, Superior Court.

MR. KELLY: Wiebon Stock, Superior Court, Orange County.

AUDIENCE MEMBER MANUEL MEDRANO: W-I-E-B-E-N --

MR. PETROCELLI: W-I-E-B-O-N S-T-O-C-K.

THE COURT: The Court will make an inquiry.

MR. KELLY: Judge, they're not in session today by the way, I'd suspect
she'd still be there.

THE COURT: She only works four days a week?

MR. KELLY: No. No.

(Pause in the proceedings.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: Okay. Bring the jury in.

THE CLERK: They're on the way.

MR. LAMBERT: I -- just to raise a minor point about the request for
admissions, while we're having the jury come out.

These are similar to the set of request for admissions. I read in
regard to the conventional serology test earlier, in a few of them --
actually more than a few, in many of them, there's in part of their
response, there's a qualification as to time that we discussed in some
motions earlier, your Honor.

That is: That they say in admitting this request for admission, the
defense will adopt the plaintiffs' definition as communicated to the
defendant at that point in time when an item was tested by an outside
laboratory as opposed to the time of the collection or any other point
in time. I'd prefer just to read that ones at the beginning of the
request for admission or perhaps to have the Court instruct the jury
that that's the point in time qualification, rather than read it in
the answer to every single request for admission.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. LAMBERT: Similarly, in a few of them, they define the term "match"
to be one that -- to mean cannot be excluded as a contributor as an
evidence fragment. I'd just as soon read that.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. LAMBERT: The second point I'd like to raise, Your Honor, these all
go to various items of evidence. Their listed by evidence item number.
I'd like to put up the boards which list the evidence items numbers as
I go through each session so the jury can follow along which evidence
item this particular request relates to.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you.

MR. BAKER: All these requests for admissions -- I went through them
after lunch -- are cumulative as to what the three persons testified,
Cotton, Montgomery and Sims. I'd like to form an objection.

I don't mind saving time. I would prefer that he read all the request
for admissions and then we have the response read at one time so that
it doesn't mislead the jury that we're admitting things when we have
qualifiers.

THE COURT: I didn't understand your last sentence.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

In other words, if there's ten requests for admission in a row that
have the same qualifier that he just read, for the request of
admissions, then we read the one response instead of subtracting the
qualifier and an just having it read as "admit" in front of the jury.

THE COURT: Okay.

To satisfy Mr. Baker's concern, you will read a qualification at the
beginning. We can read all of the requests for admission and
admissions at the conclusion. You may again restate the qualification
that it applies to all of these admissions that were made.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

How long is this going to take?

MR. LAMBERT: Without having to read the qualifications every time, I
think it will be pretty quick because the requests themselves are
relatively short.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. LAMBERT: Maybe half an hour, something like that.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. P. BAKER: They got me out from behind the Elmo.

THE COURT: Yes. You moved up in the world.

(Laughter.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Could I see counsel at bench without the reporter?

(A bench conference was held which was not reported:)

THE COURT: At this point the Court will give you an instruction with
regards to what's going to happen now.

In this case, the plaintiff served on the defendant, a written request
to admit the truth to certain facts. All facts which were expressly
admitted by the defendant or which defendant failed to deny, must be
accepted as conclusively proved.

Mr. Lambert is going to read a series of these requests for admission
and admissions or whatever responses he's going to read to you. It
will have the affect that I just read to you insofar as the legal
affect is concerned, and how you will be using that in your
deliberations.

Okay. You may proceed.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

Pursuant to section 2033 of the California Code of Civil Procedure,
Plaintiff Fredrick Goldman requests that the defendant Orenthal James
Simpson admit the following specified matters of fact.

(Reading:)

Request number 7: Admit that your HLA DQ alpha blood type is 1.1, 1.2.

Admit. The response is admit.

Request number 214: Admit that Ronald Goldman's HLA DQ Alpha blood
type was 1.3, comma, 4.

Response: Admit.

Request number 215: Admit that Nicole Brown Simpson's HLA DQ Alpha
blood type was 1.1, comma, 1.1.

Response: Admit.

As to the following requests for admissions. The defendant adopts the
plaintiffs' definition as communicated to the defendant as that point
in time when an item was tested by an outside laboratory as opposed to
the time of collection or any other point in time. (Reading:).

Request number 14: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 47 had a HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Admit that the item identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence
item 47, dash, control, tested negative for DNA when tested by
Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Admit that the blood contained in the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 48 had an HLA DQ Alpha blood type 1.1,
comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request number 43: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 48-Control tested negative for DNA when
tested by Cellmark.

Request number 91: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 49 had a HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit. "

Request number 49: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 49, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 110. Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 50 had a HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request number 55: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 50, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request number 129: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 52 had a HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 61: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 52, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 175: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 52 matched your
blood's DNA banding pattern at all of the five single-locus probes
known as MS1, MS31, MS43, G3, and YNH24 when subjected to a RFLP test
by Cellmark.

Response: Admit. The term "matched" as used in this and in all other
request for admissions means "cannot than be excluded" as a
contributor to the evidence fragment.

Request Number 144: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 115 had a DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 153: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 116 had a DQ
alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 162: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117, had a DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 180: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as D1S7.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 181: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as D2S44.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 182: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as
D4S139.

Response: Admit.

MR. P. BAKER: Judge, I think we should use the qualifier when we're
using the word "match." It wasn't made apparent to the jury.

MR. LAMBERT: I read it the first time it was used.

MR. P. BAKER: But only on that one response.

THE COURT: What we're going to do, at the conclusion of --

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

THE COURT: -- This portion that you're reading, Mr. Lambert, you're
going to reiterate the qualifier.

MR. LAMBERT: Yes. It applies to several of them as it goes, and I'll
read it again at the end and I will indicate.

THE COURT: And you will indicate to the jury what portions they apply
to?

MR. LAMBERT: Yes. (Reading:)

Request Number 183: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as
D5S110.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 184: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as
D10S28.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 185: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 117 matched
your blood's DNA banding pattern at the genetic marker known as
D17S79?

Response: Admit.

MR. LAMBERT: He can change the board now.

MR. LAMBERT: I'm told I didn't read in a response for item 43.

THE COURT REPORTER: Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: There isn't an item 43. Which board?

MR. P. BAKER: Request for admission 43.

MR. LAMBERT: Oh, the request for admission 43.

THE COURT REPORTER: Uh-huh.

MR. LAMBERT: Oh. The response is "admit." (Reading:)

Request Number 343: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 6 had an HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 350: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 6, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 343: -- I'll skip that.

Request Number 354: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 7 had an HLA DQ
Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 365: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 7, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 369: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 12 had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 380: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 12, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 387: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 12 matched your
blood's DNA banding pattern at all of the five single-locus probes
known at as MS1, MS31, MS43, G3 and YNH24 when subjected to an RFLP
test by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 232: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 24 had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 239: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 24, dash,
control tested negative for DNA when tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 269: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 25 contained
DNA segment which matched your DNA segment.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 280: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 26 contained
DNA segment which matched your DNA segment.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 285: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 26, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by DOJ.

Request Number 248: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 30, contained
DNA segment which matched your DNA segment.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 253: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 30, dash,
control tested negative for DNA when tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 257: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 34 had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 264: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 34, dash,
control tested negative for DNA when tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 291: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 293 had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.1.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 305: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 303 contained
DNA segment which matched your DNA segment.

Response: Admit.

Request 306: Admit that the blood contained in the item identified at
the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 303 contained DNA segment
which matched the DNA segment of Ronald Goldman.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 307: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 303 contained
DNA segments which matched the DNA segment of Nicole Brown Simpson.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 308: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 303, dash, control tested negative for DNA
when tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 325: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 304 contained
DNA segment which matched your DNA segment.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 326: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 304 contained
DNA segment which matched the DNA segment of Ronald Goldman.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 327: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 304 contained
DNA segments which matched the DNA segment of Nicole Brown Simpson.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 338: Admit that the item identified at the criminal
trial as LAPD evidence item 304 tested negative for DNA when tested by
DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 396: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 13 matched
Nicole Brown Simpson -- Nicole Brown Simpson's DNA banding pattern and
all of the five single-locus probes known as MS1, MS31, MS43, G3 and
YNH24 when subjected to an RFLP test by Cellmark.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 399: Admit that the blood DNA banding pattern contained
in the item identified at the crime trial as LAPD evidence item 13
matched the DNA banding pattern of the blood of Nicole Brown Simpson
at 11 separate loci as tested by DOJ.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 405: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 13A had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 416: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 13B had an HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.1.

Response: Admit.

Request Number 426: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 9 included HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.2.

Request Number 427: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 9 included HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.1, comma, 1.1. Admit --

Response: Admit. I forgot to read that item.

Request Number 428: Admit that the blood contained in the item
identified at the criminal trial as LAPD evidence item 9 included HLA
DQ Alpha blood type 1.3, comma, 4.

Response: Admit.

Admitting these requests for admissions the defense adopts the
plaintiffs' definition as communicated to the defendant as that point
in time when an item was tested by an outside laboratory as opposed to
the time of collection or any other point in time and the term matched
is used in this and all other request for admissions means cannot be
excluded as a contributor to the evidence fragment.

Thank you, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay. Is that all of it?

MR. LAMBERT: That's it.

THE COURT: Okay. Any follow up with -- for admission by defense?

MR. P. BAKER: No.

THE COURT: Okay. Then we're done for the day?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: Yes.

THE COURT: Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, we'll resume Monday. Schedules might be a little
bit up in the air, but hopefully we'll get it ironed out.

So I'll order you back at 8:30. Don't talk about the case. Don't form
or express my opinions. Don't read any newspaper or other print
material on the subject. Don't watch anything on television or listen
to anything on the radio about this matter.

Don't let anybody talk to you about this case and don't let anybody
attempt to ask you questions about this case. And if anybody makes any
effort to inquire of you or to impose their opinions on you, regarding
this case, please let me know. Okay?

Have a nice weekend. We will see you Monday at 8:30.

JUROR: Thank you, Your Honor.

(The following proceedings were held in open court outside the
presence of the jury:)

THE COURT: We haven't got a connection yet. I want you to be apprised.

MR. P. BAKER: Yes.

THE COURT: That's the best we can do is have a conference.

MR. P. BAKER: So hang around?

THE COURT: Hang around.

(At 2:20 P.M. an adjournment was taken until Monday, November 18, 1996
at 8:30 A.M.)


</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-4</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B007-304</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov18.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053840 text/html 195821
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:48:04 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 20:58:31 GMT
Content-length: 195626
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/18/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 18, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996
9:25 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Morning.

THE COURT: Sorry for the delay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

MR. LAMBERT: Plaintiff calls Mr. Collin Yamauchi.

COLLIN YAMAUCHI, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: And if you would, please state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: My name is Collin Yamauchi, first name C-O-L-L-I-N, last
name Y-A-M-A-U-C-H-I.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Morning, Mr. Yamauchi.

A. Morning.

Q. Would you please tell us what your occupation is.

A. I'm a criminalist; I work for the City of Los Angeles. I'm assigned
to the Los Angeles Police Department Scientific Investigation
Division.

Q. Within the Scientific Investigation Division, what is your current
area of assignment?

A. My unit is special testing.

Q. And what do they do in special testing?

A. Mainly instrumental analysis. What I work with is gunshot residue
analysis.

Q. Would you please describe for us your formal education.

A. I have a bachelor's degree in biology from California State
University, Long Beach.

And after graduating from there, I moved on to a company called ICN
Radiochemicals, where I received training in various DNA techniques.
And I even attend a class as -- a techniques workshop from a place
called BRL. It's in Frederic, Maryland.

After three and a half years as a quality control chemist at ICN
Radiochemicals, I then moved to the Police Department, where I started
off first four months introducing myself with the protocols,
procedures, and methods of the serology unit.

And through the serology unit, I attended classes at a place called
the California Criminalistics Institute. That's part of DOJ in
Sacramento.

I've had classes in forensic serology, zone electrophoresis, and also
isoelectric focusing. These are techniques that are used in
conventional serology, which is something that's similar to PCR DNA.

That, I'm sure, you heard a lot about already.

I've also had a biology class dealing specifically with forensic
applications of molecular biology, and that was held at Orange County
Sheriff's Crime Laboratory in Santa Ana.

Finally, in forensic PCR, I've had a class on forensic PCR
amplification at a workshop held by Rose Molecular Systems, which at
the time were the people associated with Percanoma, who has a patent
on the polymerase chain reaction, or the PCR system.

Q. Thank you, sir.

What year did you graduate from college?

A. 19 -- 1986.

Q. Right after college is when you went to work, I think, for ICN?

A. ICN Radiochemicals, yeah.

Q. What year did you come to work for the SID, for the Scientific
Investigation Division?

A. 1960.

Q. Pardon me. What?

A. Excuse me. 1990.

Q. I thought you weren't quite that old.

1990?

A. I wasn't even born then.

Q. So you worked from 1990 to the present for the Scientific
Investigation Division?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And how long -- when you first started, you said you were in the
serology unit?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. And how long were you in that unit?

A. For approximately five years.

Q. And until -- And then you transferred to the special testing unit
that you're in now; is that right?

A. Yes, it's right.

Q. And as of une 12, 1994, what was your assignment at SID?

A. June 12 -- yeah, okay.

I was working in serology.

Q. Serology.

And would you describe generally what your duties were in the serology
department at that time.

A. I was working in the DNA section with PCR, but I also had training
in conventional serology which I did on occasion, also.

Q. So in the serology department at SID you did both conventional
serology and PCR DNA testing?

A. Yes.

Q. And you did work in both those areas?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Now, did you do any work in connection with the investigation in
this case?

A. Yes.

Q. And when did -- what was your first involvement in connection with
this case?

A. It would be Monday, the 13th, when my supervisor, Greg Matheson,
asked me if I would be interested in working on the blood evidence.

Q. And did -- what were you going to be doing on the blood evidence in
this case?

A. I -- he didn't say specifically blood evidence; just in general
working with this case.

We weren't sure about what types of evidence it was going to entail at
that point.

Q. And when did you first do any actual work on the case?

A. That would be Tuesday, the -- let's see -- the 14th.

Q. 14th.

And what was the first work that you did on it -- this case?

A. I analyzed blood stains from -- would you like specifics?

Q. Please.

A. The numbers. Sure.

Referring to my notes, okay. Those would be item numbers 47, 48, 49,
50, and 52. And item numbers 41 and 42, item number 9, and also item
number 17.

Q. And those were various items of evidence in the case that had been
collected by some other SID personnel?

A. Yes.

Q. And how was the decision made for you to work on those specific
items as your first task?

A. I discussed that with Dennis Fung.

Q. And Mr. Fung pointed out these items as items that needed to be
tested?

A. Yes.

Q. Would you describe for us, just first generally, the steps that you
took to accomplish the testing of those evidence items.

A. As far as the samples?

Q. Why don't we start with whatever the first step was that you took.

What was the first thing that you did in terms of doing testing on all
of those items of evidence?

A. Well, the first item I received was -- let's -- it would be the
blood vial -- the O.J. Simpson blood vial. And that was the first item
I set up because it needed a certain time to dry in order for us to
work it in our PCR process.

Q. So you took the -- this was a vial of blood, was it?

A. Yes.

Q. And what did you do with that vial of blood?

A. The vial of blood was processed in normal fashion, the way we
always handle exemplars of victims or suspects, et cetera.

And this blood was taken -- the tube held in one hand, covered the cap
up with chemwipes.

Chemwipes are sort of like a laboratory version of Kleenex. They're
something you have at the side to wipe and dab and clean, and they're
specially designed to be low in lint, and they're basically made for
laboratory purposes.

I generally use three chemwipes. I'll put them on the top of the cap
because, when you open these blood vials up, it's kind of tricky, but
you're going to get a little bit of blood on the cap. It's almost
always you get a little blood around the cap edge. So with the
chemwipes on top, that eliminates any chances of any blood getting
elsewhere and all over the place.

And you do these type of -- you take these type of procedures -- well,
mainly for my case, I'll just say it's mostly for my own physical
health and safety, because basically we don't know what these -- who
these blood vials are from -- in general, in a general sense. And as
everybody knows, there's a lot of blood-borne pathogens and diseases
you can get from blood.

So we try to wear gloves, of course, and keep the chemwipes on the top
and carefully open these vials up.

So I opened the vial up, put the cap down on the side, and then I
would reach over and grab my pipe header, which is an instrument -- a
scientific instrument used to transfer blood or other various
solutions. I use that and I transfer the blood over to what's known as
a Fitzco card, which is a card that's used to pool the blood in a
dried state for further testing, transfer the blood onto that card,
and allow it to dry.

The type of pipe header was put in the receptacle and the cap was
placed back on the vial and put away. My chemwipes and my gloves was
taken off in a sterile fashion.

At that point, I recall I needed to throw them away in the proper
receptacle. Unfortunately, I was working in the evidence processing
room, which is not where I usually make exemplars, and there was no --
as far as my recollection went, I recall holding them and trying to
decide whether I should throw them in there, in the evidence
processing room, or back at serology.

Q. When you have something like gloves and these chemwipes, is there a
special kind of receptacle that they're put into after -- when you
want to dispose of them?

A. The gloves and chemwipes, yeah. Well, it's a large biohazard
receptacle.

Q. It's a receptacle designed to put biological hazards in, as opposed
to just ordinary waste?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you mentioned the evidence processing room is that -- that's
where you did this particular Fitzco card that process you described?

A. Yes.

Q. And where about in the evidence processing room were you when you
did the Fitzco card?

A. I was working on a kind of a laboratory bench that would be on the
far, side away from where the evidence was, which were on tables in
the middle of the room.

Q. So the evidence item was on a table in the middle of the room while
you were doing the Fitzco card on it's work bench?

A. Yes.

Q. And about how far away from where you did the Fitzco card were the
items of evidence?

A. Approximately ten to fifteen feet.

Q. Can you describe for the jury the condition that the items of
evidence, the blood evidence that we're talking about here, was in
while you did the Fitzco card?

A. Oh, the evidence collected?

Q. Yes.

A. Okay.

Those were packaged in coin envelopes, inside paper bindles. The paper
bindles were inside of the coin envelopes.

Q. So the swatches that we've heard of before, that contained the
evidence, were inside closed paper bindles at the time?

A. Yes.

Q. And those paper bindles, were they inside of a coin envelope?

A. Yes.

Q. And was that also closed?

A. Well, flap shut or something. Not necessarily gum shut.

Q. But the flap was shut?

A. Yes.

Q. That was -- all of that evidence was ten to fifteen feet away from
where you did this Fitzco card?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, this process of preparing a Fitzco card or a swatch from a an
evidence vial, is that something you've done in the past before this
occasion?

A. Yes.

Q. About how many times have you done it?

A. It's got to be hundreds.

Q. And when you do this, do you commonly follow the same process
you've just described to us here today?

A. Yes, I -- yes, I did.

Q. And when you did this process that you've described here today, the
purpose in putting the chemwipes over the top of the receptacle is to
protect any of the blood from getting on you or on any of the items of
evidence; is that right?

A. Yeah. First and foremost, personal protection, and then of course,
secondary, of course, we don't want to contaminate any evidence; and
that's why we wear gloves and take all those precautions.

Q. Now -- and in this case, after you've gone through the process and
taken all the steps you have, you then disposed of the gloves and the
chemwipes?

A. Yes. I'm not sure where. I don't remember specifically that much of
it.

Q. You're not sure which trash container you threw them in when you
disposed of them?

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) The blood vial, when you first started the process
it, was it closed? I mean was the cap on it?

A. Yes.

Q. Yeah. And when you finished, did you put the cap back on?

A. Yes, of course,

Q. Now, in his opening statement, Mr. Baker stated that --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to -- I'm going to object. This is
argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Mr. Yamauchi, when you were -- did you spill the
blood at all when you were doing this process?

A. No.

Q. Did the blood go flying out of the vial and go across the room and
land on the evidence envelopes that were ten or fifteen feet away?

A. No.

Q. Did the blood in any way at all contaminate those items of evidence
during this process?

A. No.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, after you finished doing the Fitzco card,
what did you next do?

A. Took a look at the glove.

Q. By "glove," maybe you should describe for the jury what glove it is
you're talking about.

A. I'm sorry; it's item number 9. It's a regular brown glove, with
blood on it.

Q. And where did you do this process?

A. Again, in the evidence processing room.

Q. And approximately at what location in the evidence processing room?

A. It would be on the same workbench in front of where we have clean
roll-out paper.

Q. And did you use the roll-out paper?

A. Yes.

Q. What -- how did you use that?

A. Well, we lay out paper to serve as a barrier between the counter
top and any evidence item that we'll be working on.

Q. So you put the paper down in connection with the examination of the
glove?

A. Yes.

Q. And were you wearing gloves when you did this?

A. Of course.

Q. So this is a clean set of gloves that you've put on after you did
the Fitzco card?

A. Of course.

Q. Would you describe what you did in connection with your examination
of the glove?

A. Initially, I had to search for signs of blood. It's not readily
apparent because the color of the glove is rather brown, but you can
see that there's a lot of discoloration on the glove.

We have a test that's a -- what we use is a preliminary screening test
for the presence of blood. Doesn't necessarily confirm that it's human
blood or not, gives us a good indication whether or not there's blood
there.

I utilized some spot checks of this phenolthalein test in order to
determine areas that were phenol positive and possible for sampling.

Q. And how many different areas on the glove did you test with the
phenolthalein test?

A. Initially a couple.

Q. Did you then take any samples from the glove for further testing?

A. Yes.

Q. And how many did you take?

A. I wound up taking four samples.

Q. And can you just describe generally where on the glove those four
samples were taken from.

A. I took a sample, A, from right around this area (indicating to
hand), a sample B from right around this area, (indicating.)

The B sample, rather than making an incision and cutting out a piece
of the glove, I used a technique where we use swatches to transfer the
stain to the swatch, and then --

MR. BLASIER: May I object? Narrative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: And then C, on the inside cuff, on the inner lining, I
cut out a sample.

And then D, on the back side, right here in -- (indicating to hand).

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) So just for the purposes of the record, you've
demonstrated for us and the jury. Maybe you could state in words, you
took some off the back of the glove. And where were the other areas?

A. Right here and here, off of the back, and right here (indicating).

Q. When you say "here," the court reporter can't take down what that
means. I'm trying to get it a little better.

A. Excuse me.

Off of the back of the glove, beneath about where the middle finger
is, and also along the blade edge of the hand, closer towards the
wrist, and on the front side of the glove, on the thumb section around
where the top joint is, and also on the inner lining, down towards the
wrist, the back inner lining of the wrist section.

Q. Now, in the process of doing this glove evidence, item number 9,
when you started that process, you, yourself, were wearing gloves?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you change your gloves at all during that process?

A. I probably did change a few times.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Move to strike as nonresponsive, speculative.

THE COURT: Overruled. That was the response.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Could you tell us, sir, you mentioned that you
worked for ICN in your first job.

Did that job have any effect on the way in which you change your
gloves when you're doing scientific procedures?

A. Well, generally speaking, at ICN, I worked with radiochemicals. One
of the things about them, you can't see them. You can't see the
radiation. So working in that kind of environment, you change gloves
on a more than routine basis; you've got to constantly change gloves
working with radiation.

And I probably have taken that particular part of my work on to
working at SID, because I tend to change my gloves a lot more than
most of the people I work with.

Q. And then, after doing this sampling on evidence item number 9, what
was the next thing that you did that day, sir?

A. Started sampling the cloth swatches.

Q. And those were the ones that you listed, the evidence items you
listed for us previously?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you tell us what steps you took to test, or rather sample, the
cloth swatches?

A. When I sample cloth swatches, I take them out of the coin envelope
and I'll place the bindle on top of about a stack of three -- what do
you call it -- chemwipes.

And the reason is because I'll use that bindle as a cutting surface in
order to take my scalpel blade and cut the swatches.

And I've become rather dexterous with this. And I don't know how
everybody else does it, but most people that use scalpel blades do it
in pretty much the same fashion: You can cut the swatch if you hold
the blade at maybe about a 45-degree angle or less and down on it, you
can pick it up, and then, manipulating the micro centrifuge tubes,
which are scientific tubes we use to hold our samples, you can hold
that over there and then put the sample in.

This is probably the most sterile technique to use in this regard,
because what I use are sterile scalpel blades that are disposable.
That way, after each item I sample, I just toss the blade.

And then I'll move on to the next one, and I'll change the stack of
chemwipes that I have underneath each time, thereby insuring that no
cross-contamination can occur. And also, first and foremost, actually
only work on one item of evidence at a time; that's the key. That way,
it eliminates chances of cross-contaminating from one item to another.

Q. So during this process, you only work on one item of evidence at a
time?

A. Yes.

Q. So you take out one coin envelope. And could you describe for us
what you would find in each of the coin envelopes.

A. The coin envelopes contain both evidence samples of the red stain,
as well as a substrate control. And what a substrate control is, it's
something taken beside the place where the stain is to show that there
is no interfering substances already in that particular area that
could cause a result or something anomalous.

And therefore, what I expect to find and what I generally do find,
would be one paper bindle containing a control swatch and one paper
bindle containing the swatch or swatches of the stain itself.

Q. And is that what you found in this case, with these evidence items?

A. Yes.

Q. And you processed each coin envelope one at a time; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you do both the evidence bindle and the bindle containing the
control, one at a time, as part of this process?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. And you did that for all of the various evidence items that you
sampled that day?

A. Yes.

Q. And as part of this, did you also examine what was in the bindles
and make notes in your work papers to describe what it is you found
there?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And did you make notes as to which portion of the swatches you,
yourself, were then going to use to run your testing?

A. Yes. I make general approximation drawings to indicate even that.

Q. Okay.

And as you finish with each bindle, examining what's in it and taking
a sample for testing purposes, what do you then do with the bindle?

A. Oh, they're put back into the coin envelopes.

Q. And before you proceed to the next evidence item?

A. Yes.

Q. And these chemwipes that you said you put underneath each bindle,
how often do you change those?

A. With each bindle.

Q. So you put new chemwipes down for each bindle?

A. Yes.

Q. And the steps that you've described as to how you do this sampling
process, did you follow that same set of steps with all of the
evidence items that you processed on the 14th?

A. Yes.

Q. And you processed for each envelope both an evidence swatch and a
control swatch, as well?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, before we -- after you finished all of this, this evidence
sampling, what did you then do with the items of evidence that you had
taken out from sampling process?

A. Well, they were left on that same workbench.

Q. Did you then do any testing with them?

A. Oh, with the cuttings that I took?

Q. Yes.

A. They were run PCR analysis.

Q. And what particular test did you employ with those evidence items?

A. That would be specifically the DQ Alpha.

Q. And why did you choose to run the DQ Alpha test on these items of
evidence?

A. Because it happens rather rapidly, gives you a lot of information.

Q. What, does it give you information -- more information than
conventional serology tests would give you?

A. Take, for example, the A, B and O system. Everybody's familiar with
A, B, and O. We have type A people, type B people and type O; also,
type AB.

There are four different types there and they're broken down in the
population, except approximately half the population, maybe a little
less, is type O.

So if I were to run that test, the ability of that test to distinguish
between two or three different people wouldn't be all that powerful,
being as how approximately half the people are type O.

So what we needed was a test that was a little more powerful. The DQ
Alpha test has six alleles or six different types. Like the A, B, O
has A, B, O, the DQ Alpha has 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 2, 3 and 4. That can make
a numerous amount of combinations and give you a lot more information
than you could possibly get out of something in conventional typing
like the ABO system.

THE COURT: Mr. Lambert, we've had two lectures from specialists in the
field already. We don't need --

MR. LAMBERT: I'll speed up.

THE COURT: -- from every person who testifies.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) You then proceeded to do the DQ Alpha test on
these items of evidence?

A. Yes.

Q. Let me show you --

MR. LAMBERT: And ask that it be marked as Exhibit 2189, which is the
next in order. Copy here to Mr. Blasier.

(The instrument herein referred to as analyzed evidence report
associated with DR number 940817431 of Collin Yamauchi was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2189.)

Q. And I ask that you identify it for the jury, please.

A. This is my analyzed evidence report associated with DR number
940817431.

Q. That's the DR number for the case of People versus Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And what does the analyzed evidence report that you're looking at
contain?

A. It contains a list of the evidence items I analyzed and the
results.

Q. And before we get too much into that, let me ask if in addition to
the items that you tested on the 14th, did you, the next day, do any
subsequent testing of any evidence items?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Okay. Let's go back to the next day, then, and ask you what you did
on that day?

A. Started off in the morning receiving two blood samples from the
coroner's office via Detective Vannatter.

I then proceeded to make Fitzco cards in the same fashion I described
earlier, except I made them in the serology unit. And then I returned
to the evidence processing room and handed over the blood vials to
Dennis Fung.

Q. So the first thing you did that morning was to receive from
Detective Vannatter some blood vials containing the victim's blood?

A. Yes.

Q. And you prepared Fitzco cards?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you use the same steps that you described already in
preparing those Fitzco cards?

A. Yes.

Q. But you mentioned this -- these Fitzco cards you prepared in the
serology lab; is that right?

A. Yes.

Q. Why did you do that?

A. Well, because I received them in the serology unit.

Q. Is that where you normally work?

A. And -- of course, that's where I normally work.

Q. So, those cards were done in a serology unit.

When you finish them, they have to dry I take it; is that right?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. Where did you leave them to dry?

A. It would be on my workbench.

Q. In serology?

A. Yes.

Q. And after you did the Fitzco cards and left them on your workbench
in serology, what did you next do?

A. I went to the evidence processing unit and returned the blood vials
to Dennis Fung.

Q. Were the blood vials closed?

A. Of course, caps were on, yeah.

Q. And were they in envelopes, as well?

A. I don't have that in my notes. And to tell you the truth, I don't
recall specifically.

Q. Okay.

A. They could very well have been.

MR. BLASIER: Objection. Move to strike as speculative.

THE COURT: The answer remains.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Then what did you do next?

A. Just had a discussion with Dennis Fung, where he explained a number
of other items that needed to be tested, and I then went about my same
protocol and procedure to sample those.

Q. And which items did you sample on this second day?

A. That would be item number 23, number 34, 33, 25, 31, 12, and 14.

Q. And did you follow the same sampling process with those items of
evidence as you already described from the prior day?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you again do the items of evidence one at a time?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you again have chemwipes under each bindle when you processed
the items of evidence?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you again use the procedure of using a sterile disposable
scalpel that you changed each time?

A. Yes.

Q. And after you finished doing the sampling of these items of
evidence, did you again run the DQ Alpha PCR test on those items of
evidence?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And so you have two separate sets of evidence items that you ran
PCR tests on, one on one day and one on the next day; is that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And of -- are all of those results reflected in the analyzed
evidence report that you have in front of you?

A. Yes, they are.

Q. I'm not going to go through all of the results of all of the tests
that you did, Mr. Yamauchi, but I just wanted to go over these few
that are reflected on this board.

Evidence item number 48, which is one of the drops from the Bundy
walkway, did you test that evidence item?

(Counsel displays board entitled Results of DNA Analysis, Bundy Crime
Scene.)

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And the results you got were what, sir?

A. DQ Alpha type 1.1, comma 1.2.

Q. And the reference vial for Mr. Simpson, did you get a DQ Alpha type
on that, as well?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. What was the type on it?

A. 1.1, 1.2.

Q. So the DQ Alpha type you obtained for item 48 matched Mr. Simpson's
DQ Alpha type?

A. Yeah. They have the same DQ Alpha type.

Q. Right. And you can see from the chart here, the results you got are
the same that DOJ and Cellmark got of that same evidence item. Do you
see that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And then for items 50 and 52, did you get the same results on those
evidence items?

A. Yes.

Q. And you can see from the chart that Cellmark and DOJ, they also
tested those and they also got the same results. Do you see that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

MR. LAMBERT: The chart is Exhibit 291 for the record, Your Honor

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Now, Mr. Yamauchi, I'd like to turn to another
subject.

Did you, in this case also do some work in connection with an
examination of the socks evidence, item number 13?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Did you, on August the 4th, do any anything in connection with those
socks?

A. Yes. I searched them for blood.

Q. And prior to August the 4th, had you looked at those socks on any
prior occasion?

A. On June 29.

Q. And on June 29, was that at a meeting with Mr. Matheson and Michele
Kestler?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Matheson already testified about that meeting, so we won't go
into it again.

But let me just ask: On that occasion, June 29, did you have occasion
to look at the socks?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you notice any blood on the socks on June 29?

A. No.

Q. Did you closely examine the socks on that occasion?

A. No.

Q. Then on August the 4th, you did a search for blood; is that right?

A. Yes, that's right.

Q. Can you describe for us -- well, first let me ask you this:

When you first took the socks out and looked at them on August the
4th, did they look any different than they had on June 29?

A. August the 4th? I really didn't look at them all that well on the
29th, and so, no, I wouldn't notice any difference.

Q. When you first took them out on August the 4th, did you notice any
blood that was apparent on the socks?

A. No.

Q. So you then did a closer examination for blood?

A. Well, yes. That phenolthalein test I described earlier was
utilized. I basically looked at the socks, looked closely for slight
discolorations or anything that might indicate a stain. It's a very
dark surface, so it's hard to see a stain on it.

And I then utilized that presumptive test that I described earlier and
it was positive, indicative of the presence of blood.

Q. So you did the phenolthalein test on more than one portion of the
socks?

A. Yes.

Q. And were all the tests positive that you did?

A. I did two spots. They were both positives.

Q. Did you do anything else with the socks at that point?

A. No. At that point, I asked my supervisor, Mr. Matheson, what to do
next.

And he just said, well, just package them back up and we'll decide
later what to do with that item of evidence.

Q. So that's all you did at that point with the socks, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

MR. LAMBERT: Your Honor, I move Exhibit 2189 into evidence.

THE COURT: Received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2189 was
received in evidence.)

MR. LAMBERT: No further questions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Cross.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Thank you, Your Honor.

Mr. Yamauchi, can you give me an estimate of the total amount of time
that you have spent working with or for the plaintiffs in this case?

A. Actually meeting with them maybe about five, ten hours something
like that.

Q. And how much time -- we took your deposition. How much time was
that?

A. I'm not really sure. Maybe an hour and a half.

Q. And how much preparation time did you do?

A. As far as reading, like going over my transcripts and stuff?

Q. Yes.

A. Got to be over 40 hours.

Q. Okay. Did you keep track of that time with any kind of
particularity?

A. I've been writing it down.

Q. Do you know whether or not the plaintiffs have been billed for any
of your time?

A. I'm not sure. The City Attorney's Office is supposed to handle that
for us.

Q. Have you submitted any kind of billings at all to the City
Attorney?

A. No, I haven't.

Q. You know, the time that you spent with the plaintiffs, how much
time have you spent with Mr. Lambert?

A. Counting today, before this morning, probably a little over five
hours.

Q. And did he go over the questions he was going to ask?

A. Well, he didn't go over, like, specifically what he's going to ask,
but he asked me questions.

Q. How much experience did you have with case work in the PCR process
at the time that you did the tests in this case?

A. I'm sorry; one more time.

Q. How much experience did you have in case work with PCR analysis at
the time that you did the tests in this case?

A. I believe about six months.

Q. And there were other analysts at LAPD that had more experience than
you, correct, in that topic?

A. Well, specifically in PCR, but in conventional and DNA serology, I
was the most experienced.

Q. In PCR, there were other people of much more experience than you?

A. I wouldn't say much, but there were people with more experience.

Q. I'm sorry. Were you done?

A. Yes. That's fine.

Q. Was there anybody there that was doing PCR that had less experience
than you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Yamauchi, do you think it's important to have
procedures in place to avoid the manipulation of samples, to avoid
transferring material from one piece of evidence to another?

A. You talking about contamination?

Q. To avoid cross-contamination, yes.

A. Yes, it's very important.

Q. It's extremely important, is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that applies to evidence samples before they get to you, as
well as when you get them; is that correct?

A. Of course.

Q. It applies in packaging and unpackaging materials, correct?

A. Packaging and unpackaging materials? I'm sorry; can you be more
specific?

Q. Anytime that a sample is looked at by you -- for instance, you have
to unpack it from whatever container it's in, from the person who had
it before?

A. I see what you're saying.

Yes, that's correct.

Q. It's very important each time you do that, that is, take it out of
something and put it back, that you avoid too much manipulation of the
item to avoid possible contamination, correct?

A. It's always a good rule of thumb, yes.

Q. Now, in this case, you were aware right from the beginning that
this was a very high profile case, were you not?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I didn't know it was going to be as high profile as it
turned out to be, but we've had -- we work in LA. We've got a lot of
high profile cases.

Q. Like, is this one of them?

A. Sure turned out that way.

Q. You knew it at the time you did your testing?

A. At the time of my testing, like I said, I knew it was a high
profile case.

I didn't know it was going to be as big as it turned out to be.

Q. Okay.

And you were told that it was a priority matter, were you not?

A. Priority? Well, I was told that the results and things like that,
there was reasons why they would need them rather quickly, yes.

Q. They told you they wanted them as soon as possible, correct?

A. I'm not sure if they used those words exactly.

Q. Remember testifying at the criminal trial that that's what they
told you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, Your Honor. If he has a reference, he should
give it, not ask him.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, if I said and agreed to that, then I must have done
it. I don't have a recollection of those specifics.

Q. All right. And they told you they wanted results that day, correct,
on the 14th?

A. No, nobody ever told me that.

Q. Now, the manual for the DQ Alpha system suggests that you not do
more than 15 samples at a time; isn't that correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. It's beyond the scope.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I believe it states more something on the line of
approximately 15.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) And how many items did you process at one time in
one series on the 14th?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant. All those items are admitted, Your
Honor.

THE COURT: I'll allow a limited examination.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Twenty-three items, wasn't it, Mr. Yamauchi?

A. I believe one batch was 23 items, yeah.

Q. And on the 15th, you did 19 items, correct?

A. Yes. That sounds -- that sounds correct.

Q. And for the 23 items you did on the 14th, that includes the
preparation of the samples, the extraction of the DNA, the
amplification of the DQ Alpha, the hybridization -- in other words,
putting the solution on the testing strips, preserving the testing
strips, and photographing the testing strips, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in your lab, you have to go to two different locations to do
DQ Alpha tests, do you not?

A. Yes, we do.

Q. And you have to start preparing the sample at Pipertech, which is
where your lab is located, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And then when you're ready to amplify a sample, that is to make
multiple copies of small amounts of DNA, you've got to go to Parker
Center, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And that's -- you go in a car, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you have to carry these samples in the car?

A. Yes.

Q. And you conduct the amplification at a small room or small area in
Parker Center, correct?

A. Yes, it's a rather small room.

Q. And after you do that, the amplified DNA, that has a lot more DNA
than when you started, and you go back to Piper Tech, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you carry it back in a car, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's where you do the rest of the testing, correct?

A. Well, no. Actually, we do the hybridizations over there. The only
reason we take the DNA back, the DNA product back, is to do our
product gels, which is done in a separate room from where the sampling
takes place.

Q. Okay.

But you bring back the amplified product from your amplification room
and you bring it back to the lab; isn't that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. You do not have a procedure in place that prohibits taking
amplified product out of the amplification area back to your lab;
isn't that correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant; beyond the scope; it's all
admitted.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Unless I take the amplified product back to the lab, I
can't analyze it on the product gel.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Okay.

Now, you can't do -- you can do what is called a yield gel, can you
not?

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection.

Q. -- before you do a test?

MR. LAMBERT: Excuse me. Same objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I'll sustain that.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Did you ever do a yield gel or a blot test to
determine how much DNA you had and how much of it was human?

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: May we be heard on this, Your Honor?

THE COURT: No.

I'll allow examination regarding contamination but not as to ultimate
results.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Have you been taught that cross-contamination is
much more of a potential problem when you're dealing with smaller
amounts of degraded DNA?

A. Contamination's going to be a problem, regardless of whether you
have a large sample that contains a lot of DNA or a small sample in
quantity of DNA.

Part of the problem is, though, you can't tell by looking at a blood
swatch whether you have one blood swatch or a thousand blood swatches,
what quantities or quality of DNA is in that swatch. So your point --
I'm not sure I really get it.

Q. Okay.

Weren't you trained that where you have small quantities of degraded
DNA, that cross-contamination, a little bit of it, can cause you to
get improper results or incorrect results, because the small amount of
contamination and the small amount of starting sample all amplified
together?

Haven't you been taught that?

A. Small amount -- small amount of sample and small amount of
contamination all amplified together.

Q. Um-hum.

If you start with a larger quantity of DNA in your evidence sample,
then a small amount of contamination is not going to be -- is not
going to overwhelm your original larger amount, correct?

A. Well, that's true, if you know the quantity and quality of the DNA
you're working with.

Q. And that's what the blot and the yield blot are for?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Same objection as before.

MR. BLASIER: It's relevant to cross-contamination.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, the only thing we could use would be a blot. A gel
is not effective with the type of extraction process that we utilize.

Q. A gel tells you the count of DNA, both human --

THE COURT: Excuse me. Okay.

From here on in, I will sustain the objection based upon the
motion-in-limine ruling I made previously with regards to different
collections in the different testing techniques.

MR. BLASIER: I'm sorry.

THE COURT: And of testing techniques.

You may examine as to what he did, not whether there was any
contamination as to what he did. We will not go into what other
techniques there are available.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Yamauchi, before you were allowed to do case
work, you were required to do proficiency testing, correct, and
validation studies in your lab?

A. Yes.

Q. And you took a certain number of tests to determine whether you
were capable of accurately reading DQ Alpha results, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And one of those tests involved nine different samples. Do you
recall that test?

A. Specifically, I must have done a lot of tests involving nine or
more samples.

Q. Do you recall the test that involved nine different vaginal samples
that had combinations of vaginal fluids and semen?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Irrelevant.

MR. BLASIER: The proficiency testing is relevant for the ability of
him to get results.

THE COURT: You stipulated to the results. The question is
contamination. You may examine as to his procedures re contamination.

Q. BY MR. BLASIER: Now, Mr. Yamauchi, how did you get Mr. Simpson's
reference blood on the 14th?

A. From Dennis Fung.

Q. He gave it to you personally, didn't he?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you started to take your notes about that reference
sample, you put down that it was item 18, didn't you?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Dennis Fung did not tell you that that was a mistake, it was really
17, did he?

A. Well, he -- at that point, I don't think he had all those items in
order.

Q. Mr. Yamauchi, he didn't tell that you it should be 17 rather than
18, did he?

A. As far as I my recollection goes -- and this requires an
explanation.

Q. Mr. Yamauchi, did he tell you or didn't he?

A. Mr. Blasier, can I explain?

Q. That's a yes-or-no answer.

A. I know. But I'd still like to explain.

Q. Well, Mr. Lambert will have plenty of time with you.

Yes or no?

A. I need to give an explanation.

THE COURT: No, you don't; you need to answer the question.

THE WITNESS: Okay; I'm sorry.

One more time, please.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Mr. Fung didn't tell you when he gave you that
sample, that it was really item 17, did he?

A. No.

Q. Now, that envelope was not sealed -- the envelope that had the vial
was not sealed, was it?

A. I don't recall.

I don't think it was.

Q. And isn't it accurate that the procedure for those blood vials
requires that that envelope be sealed at the time the blood is drawn?

A. I'm not sure.

MR. BLASIER: Here is Exhibit 1112.

(The instrument herein referred to as document entitled breath alcohol
test given, yes, no, results, was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1112.)

(Counsel displays Exhibit 1112.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Yamauchi, do you recognize this as a copy of
the printing that appears on the front of the blood vial envelope?

A. I can't tell you that, since I'm not involved with that section of
the collection process.

I really don't think I've ever read that.

Q. So you don't know whether it's supposed to be sealed or not,
correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. THE WITNESS: After they sample it, no, I don't know what the
procedures are.

Q. Isn't sealing evidence items one of the requirements, to protect
their integrity?

A. Sealing is.

And as far as SID is concerned, we have to have our evidence sealed.

Q. Now --

A. Final packaging sealed before it's booked.

Q. But it's left open before booking?

A. Yeah.

Well, how can you collect it if it's sealed?

Q. It's supposed to be sealed from the time of collection until
somebody does something with it; isn't that correct?

A. No.

Q. So it's left open -- evidence items are left open from the time
they're collected until they're analyzed?

A. Until they're booked.

Q. I'm sorry?

A. Until they're booked.

Q. That's another procedure used in your lab?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you got Mr. Simpson's reference vial, your testimony is
that you took three chemwipes and put it over the cap of the vial?

A. Yes.

Q. Along with your gloves?

MR. LAMBERT: What do you mean?

Object to the question.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You were wearing gloves at the same time?

MR. LAMBERT: Oh.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You were wearing gloves at the same time?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you opened the vial, you got blood -- blood soaked through
all three chemwipes, on your glove; isn't that correct?

A. All three chemwipes, onto my glove?

Yes, I got a little bit of blood onto my glove.

Q. By the way, you didn't measure what the quantity of blood was in
that blood vial, did you?

A. Of course not.

Q. Now, after you -- or, you said you took the cap off and you set it
down on the table, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And that was the cap that had all the blood that got through the
three chemwipes, onto your glove, correct?

A. Same cap.

Q. And you said unfortunately, you were in the evidence processing
room.

You're not supposed to process those kinds of samples in the evidence
processing room, are you?

A. There's no reason why it can't be done.

Q. Why did you say "unfortunately?"

A. Well, because it wasn't a familiar environment to me. If I were
doing it back in serology, I would know where all my disposal
receptacles are.

Q. You have any idea how much blood got out of that vial when you took
the cap off and put the cap down on the table?

A. How much blood got out of the vial?

Q. Yes.

A. Well, I sampled, generally speaking, about a one ML.

Q. Do you know how much of it got out on the chemwipe, on your glove,
and the cap on the table?

A. You said on the table.

No blood got on the table, but soaking into the chemwipe and onto my
glove, if I had to approximate, I'd say it's probably 10 to 20
microliters.

Q. You have any idea what 20 nanograms of blood looks like?

A. 20 nanograms of blood?

Q. Yeah. Blood that has 20 nanograms of DNA.

A. Oh, okay. Sure.

Q. How much?

A. Well, you're talking about approximately three to five microliters.

Q. What did that look like?

A. Three to five microliters of blood, well, if you were to put it
onto a piece of paper or something like that, it would be a visible
stain.

Q. How big?

A. Not very big.

Maybe -- you know, this is a generalization -- it's going to depend
upon the type of paper, of course, and other factors, but I would say
approximately three millimeters in diameter.

Q. Now, after the blood got out onto your glove and into the chemwipe,
you took your gloves off and did something with it, correct?

A. Okay. After I replaced the cap, I had my gloves with the chemwipes
in my hand, took my gloves off, and I realized I had to throw them
out.

Once again, I had to decide whether to go to the back of this room,
where they had the proper disposal receptacle, or to take them back to
serology.

Q. By the way, prior to the time you testified in the criminal trial,
did you have any recollection at all of changing your gloves after you
opened that cap?

A. Specific recollection I had while I was up on the stand?

Q. My question was, before you testified in the criminal trial, do you
-- did you have any recollection of changing your gloves?

A. Not a specific recollection.

Q. And isn't it accurate that what happened at the criminal trial,
after you admitted that you had opened the cap and got blood on the
chemwipes and on your hands, that's when you remembered, I changed my
gloves, too?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Argumentative.

MR. BLASIER: Isn't that correct?

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: When I got -- when I looked and saw that there was blood
on my glove.

MR. BLASIER: No.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) My question was, isn't it true that it was only
after you admitted that blood had gotten out of the vial onto the
chemwipes onto the glove, that you then remembered that you changed
your gloves, also?

A. Yes, because --

Q. Thank you.

A. Okay.

Q. Now, after -- the first thing you did after you opened Mr.
Simpson's reference vial and started processing that, was process the
Rockingham glove, correct?

A. Yes.

MR. BLASIER: We have an exhibit we're getting, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) But while we're getting that, when you got the
next day -- when you got the reference samples for both victims, those
were personally delivered to you by Detective Vannatter, correct?

A. Well, he had handed them over to me from his custody.

Q. That's a yes, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you didn't make any note of the quantity in those vials; of either
of those, did you?

A. No.

Q. You would have no way of knowing whether there was less blood in
those vials than had been put there by the coroner?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. Misstates the evidence.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BLASIER: This is Exhibit 1110.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 1110.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled Mr. Yamauchi's
diagram of glove found at Rockingham was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1110.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Yamauchi, can you see that from where you are?

A. Yes.

Q. And you remember this exhibit from the criminal trial?

A. Looks familiar.

Q. And you actually drew a diagram in your notes about how many times
you handled or took things from the Rockingham glove, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And each one of these arrows represents your taking something away
or handling the Rockingham glove, correct?

A. Taking something or sampling.

Q. Correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, times that you checked in the wrist
area with phenolthalein testing or other samples, correct?

A. One, two -- I'll double-check my own notes.

Three times.

Q. You did two phenol tests, three phenol tests, a spot-check, a
sample cutting, did you not, in the wrist area of the glove?

A. That spot check and the phenol test, they are the same thing.

Q. Okay.

A. Yeah.

Q. You also handled the glove to put your initials on the inside of
the wrist notch, correct?

A. Yes, I put my initials --

Q. Thank you.

A. -- over there.

Q. Now, you have no specific recollection of changing your gloves
between samples, do you?

A. Specific recollection, no.

Q. Thank you.

A. But I would have changed my gloves.

Q. Because that would be good procedure, wouldn't it?

You don't have anything in your notes that tells you what you did in
processing these samples with respect to changing your gloves by any
law enforcement officer, do you?

A. Of course not. It's common procedure.

It's common sense, also.

Q. To not write in your notes the steps you go through?

A. No; to change your gloves.

Q. Oh.

MR. BLASIER: Can we have the Bronco results board?

THE COURT: Ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen. Don't talk about
the case. (Recess.)

MR. BLASIER: Would you permit me briefly -- may I approach briefly to
make an offer?

THE COURT: All right.

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, this witness testified that he did the test
in this case the way he always does this test.

We stipulated to what the test results -- what numbers they were going
to give. We did not stipulate that they were accurate results, whether
the tests were done properly.

The very first sample of this -- first sample of the proficiency test
got the wrong answer. He reported that he got the right answer. But he
got the wrong answer.

That's relevant to the weight of all of his testimony, and I think it
should be admissible and I think we ought to be able to go into that.

MR. LAMBERT: How can it possibly be relevant if he did get the wrong
test results of a proficiency test he took a year later? They even
admitted these test results had the correct answer.

MR. BLASIER: No, we admitted that they were the results he got, not
that they were accurate or done properly.

MR. LAMBERT: They've admitted all the DQ Alpha results for all of the
evidence items.

THE COURT: It would appear to me that the testimony so far, we've had
three different examinations of the same, they all come out with the
same results to which you've stipulated with regards to what the
result was.

Now, I think it's -- in order to -- it's a waste of time with regard
to testing out of the issue of whether he used a -- he was proficient
at his testing.

You want to argue contamination, go ahead, examine him on -- all you
want on contamination, but as far as the proficiency aspect of it is
concerned, on the basis of the evidence that is received thus far,
this is almost cumulative.

MR. BLASIER: I want the record to be clear that we did not agree that
these test results were accurate. We had qualifiers in there, some of
which the court --

THE COURT: Mr. Blasier, three experts examined the same blood coming
out with the same result.

MR. BLASIER: We're going to get into results that are different now.

THE COURT: How are they different?

MR. BLASIER: He got an inconclusive on two samples where they've
reported results. In fact, one of them was on the board.

THE COURT: You go ahead and ask him about the inconclusive, you may do
that and you may argue the inconclusive.

MR. BLASIER: I can?

THE COURT: I'm not going to allow examination as to proficiency I
think on the basis of the evidence -- on the basis of the fact that
you've stipulated to the result. I'm not going to allow it.

Thank you.

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Mr. Yamauchi, you testified as to Dr. Cotton that the DQ Alpha
system only has 6 alleles?

A. Yes.

Q. That's not correct, is it; it has 8 alleles, doesn't it?

A. Well, in the DQ Alpha system that we use, or that I use, it has 6.

Q. There is a 4.1 and a 4.2 in addition to the 4, is there not?

A. In the new kits.

Q. Those are different alleles in that system, are they not?

A. Of course they are.

Q. So when you call somebody a 4, you never did the testing to find
out whether they were a 4, a 4.1 or a 4.2, did you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, irrelevant, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No, I didn't.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) So all of the results that might be consistent
with Mr. Goldman with a 4 allele, you don't know whether this might
actually be an exclusion?

A. Well, for that matter, there could have been other systems and
other tests that we could have run to narrow it down further.

Q. You didn't though, did you?

A. No, I only ran --

Q. Thank you.

A. -- that one test.

Q. Now, with respect to the Bundy drops, none of the bindles that you
looked at had Andrea Mazzola's initials on them, did they?

A. I don't recall if they did or not.

Q. Thank you.

When you ran the reference samples for both victims and for Mr.
Simpson --

MR. BLASIER: This is 1275.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Is it accurate on June 15 when you ran the victims
DQ Alpha results from Nicole Brown Simpson showed a possible 1.2
allele?

A. That was on her exemplar?

Q. Yes.

A. I don't recall that.

Q. You have your strips with you, your pictures?

A. I don't have pictures of the strips with me.

Q. Those were provided to the defense in the criminal trial, weren't
they?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

And with respect to Mr. Goldman, isn't it true that you found an
indication of a 1.1 allele and a possible 1.2 allele on his reference
sample?

A. Yes.

Q. Possible 1.2.

A. No --

Q. Those strips --

A. Let me look at my notes first.

According to my notes, I don't have any extraneous dots indicated. I'd
have to look at the strips again.

Q. All right. You don't have those with you, do you?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Those strips were provided to Dr. John Gerdes, who was a defense
expert, correct?

A. A lot of strips were provided to him, yes.

Q. Okay.

(Counsel displays board entitled "Results of DNA Analysis Bronco
Automobile.")

MR. BLASIER: This --

MR. P. BAKER: 293.

MR. BLASIER: 293.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Mr. Yamauchi, on the 15th you processed, among
other samples, samples from the Bronco, correct?

(Exhibit 293 displayed)

A. Yes.

Q. And one of those samples that's on your results is 31, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you reported that as an inconclusive, didn't you?

A. Yes, that was reported inconclusive.

Q. Let's look at 2189, the second page.

If we zoom in on 31. They say inconclusive. That's what you reported
out, correct?

A. Yes, that's correct.

Q. You didn't report out 1.1, 1.2, weak 1.3, 4, did you?

A. As a result, no.

Q. Thank you.

Now, you also tested 33, which was a carpet fiber from an area in the
floor board of the Bronco, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you got no results, didn't you?

A. On 33?

Q. Yes.

A. No results, yes, that's correct.

Q. In fact of all the Bronco samples that you tested on the 15th, none
of them showed anything consistent with either victim, correct?

A. Well, I did obtain results that weren't conclusive.

Q. Inconclusive means you don't report the results out, doesn't it?

A. And the reasons for that.

Q. Okay.

Between the time that you reported inconclusive and we got to the
criminal trial, this had been changed to a 1.1, 1.2, weak 1.3, 4,
hadn't it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative, changed where, vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Had it been changed?

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Yes.

A. As far as right here on this board versus the time that it was put
up at the criminal trial?

Q. No, no. This was -- what you reported or what the prosecutors had
you report in the criminal trial was your results for 31, is it not?

A. Those are the actual interpretations of the strip. Those are the
results.

Q. Your interpretation?

A. Not conclusive.

Q. Your interpretation was inconclusive, wasn't it?

A. As far as my report went, yes, it was.

Q. And that was before anyone recognized the importance of there being
no victim's blood in the Bronco from the June 14 samples, correct?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative, calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, 293, which is listed on this board, along
with 33 -- let me show you property report 12.

MR. P. BAKER: 1412.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) 1412. I put a tab there for you.

Do you recognize these as the property reports for this case?

(The instrument herein described as property reports amended to add
page 58 was marked for identification as Plaintiff's Exhibit No.
1412.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Is that for the whole case?

MR. BLASIER: (Nodded.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

A. They're property reports, I'll take your word for it, sure.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) When was 293 collected that got results consistent
with Nicole Brown?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, calls for speculation, lack of foundation to
this witness.

MR. BLASIER: It's a business record.

THE COURT: The way the question is written (indicating to computer), I
don't understand the question.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) The business records that you have in front of you
indicate that 293 was collected on September 1, isn't that accurate?

MR. LAMBERT: Same objections, Your Honor. He's having him read from a
record.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes, according to this record.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Thank you.

Now, I'll ask you some questions about June 29, your meeting with
Michelle Kestler, Greg Matheson and yourself.

Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. And Michelle Kestler was the Acting Director of the lab at that
time, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And she's now the Director of the lab, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. She's a highly experienced criminalist, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. You had the experience that you've testified to, correct, in terms
of your experience as a criminalist, you've had several years
experience, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Matheson was highly experienced as well?

A. Yes.

Q. And the purpose of that meeting was to evaluate each piece of
evidence for its possible evidentiary value, wasn't it, for possible
testing?

A. Yes.

Q. For possible blood testing?

A. Yes.

Q. And another purpose of that meeting was to determine if there was
enough evidence in the various blood samples to give some to the
defense, correct?

A. No. I'm not sure if that was the purpose.

Q. Do you remember if the paperwork that was filled out, they had a
column that said "Split." You ever seen that?

A. Okay, that sounds familiar.

Q. That was one of the purposes for looking at all those evidence
items, wasn't it?

A. We could never make that determination fully by just looking at the
items, though.

The main purpose of that exercise was to act in sort of a form of a
triage and in type of MASH, where four doctors, eight casualties, only
four of them can be operated on at a time, so they have to send a
doctor out in order to evaluate which ones need high priority.

Well, that's exactly what we did in this situation. We had a large
amount of evidence and we didn't have enough of -- the facilities to
analyze every single bit of it simultaneously.

So we had to get together and they had to decide from a management
standpoint which evidence items took priority over others, and the
only way we could do this is by taking a quick look at them and trying
to determine which ones should be analyzed first and analyzed in what
fashion.

Q. So I take it you didn't have enough time to look at all of them
carefully, is that what you're saying?

A. Again, that's not the point.

Q. Well, Mr. Yamauchi, that's what you just said, isn't it?

A. No, it's not.

Q. Oh.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, misstates his testimony.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Did you have enough time to look at all of this,
Mr. Yamauchi?

A. To get a look, yeah. Not to analyze them.

Q. Well, there wasn't any testing done on that day, was there?

A. Of course not.

Q. You were looking at them to decide what kind of testing we (sic)
should do on them?

A. Potential testing, that's correct.

Q. In order to decide that, you have to look at the item to see if it
has any blood on it or other biological material, correct?

A. Potentially, yes.

Q. And you did that with the socks, didn't you, as you did with
everything else?

A. Yes, we took a look at those socks.

Q. You didn't see any blood on them on June 29, did you?

A. Didn't see anything obvious on June 29, didn't see anything obvious
on August the 4.

I could bring those socks out right now, show everybody in this room
those socks, you wouldn't see anything obvious that looks like blood
on them either.

But the fact remains that those socks have blood on them to this day.

Q. Mr. Yamauchi, you knew that the socks were a dark color on the 29th
when you looked at them, didn't you?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And you knew it's hard to see blood on dark cloth, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. So you would have looked at those, if you were doing your job, more
carefully than something lighter, wouldn't you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) You would have looked at those more carefully?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, same objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, let's get to August 4.

Now, is it your testimony that when you got the socks on August 4 --
by the way, who told you to look at them on August the 4?

A. I believe that must have been from a manager, like Greg or
somebody.

Q. Do you have it in your notes?

A. I don't believe so but I'll check.

Q. You don't write those kind of things down, do you?

A. No.

Q. All right.

So when you got them on August 4, you're saying that you still
couldn't see any blood on them?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you did two phenol tests, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you just happen to hit the stain on the ankle, didn't you?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative, misstates the testimony.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Did you just happen to hit the stain on the ankle
with the phenol test?

MR. LAMBERT: Same objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: You may rephrase it.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Did the two stains -- the two areas that you
checked, how did you know where to check?

A. Again, I looked at them carefully and I -- the only thing I can
perceive is a very slight discoloration in certain areas. To be
thorough, I did a phenolphthalein test in those areas.

Q. You saw a big discoloration around the ankle, didn't you, that you
thought was blood?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That's not what I said. I said --

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) I'm asking you isn't that what you saw, you saw a
big discoloration that you could see with the naked eye and you tested
it like you should?

A. It wasn't a big discoloration. It was barely perceptible.

Q. Barely perceptible. How big was it?

A. I don't know, I don't remember.

Q. Did you draw a diagram of it?

A. A cursory one.

Q. Can we look at this, please?

A. Certainly.

Q. Now, let's take it out here.

MR. BLASIER: Like to have this marked as next. We can make a copy so
he can have it as a written record.

THE CLERK: 2190.

(The instrument herein described as a Diagram from Mr. Yamauchi's
notebook was marked for identification as Defendant's Exhibit No.
2190.)

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) That's what you saw in the ankle area of the sock,
isn't it?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection. What did he mean by that's what you saw.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) That's what you diagramed -- you saw on the sock
on August 4?

A. What that diagram represents is the approximate area where I took
the phenolphthalein test.

Q. Not -- that doesn't represent the size of the stain you saw?

A. You can't see the stains on that sock. There's just slight
discoloration, they're barely perceptible.

Q. By the way, Mr. Yamauchi, do you know where the reference vials of
the two victims and Mr. Simpson were on August 4?

A. I don't know specifically.

MR. BLASIER: I have no further questions.

MR. LAMBERT: Thank you, Your Honor.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. LAMBERT:

Q. Let me just cover a few of the subjects that Mr. Blasier covered
during his examination.

First let's go back to the DQ Alpha test. That test is done using a
kit, isn't it, Mr. Yamauchi?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And manufactured by whom?

I think you mentioned the name of them.

A. Perkin Elmore.

Q. And at the time that you did the DQ Alpha test in question here,
did that kit have the capability of isolating the 4.1 or 4.2 allele?

A. No, it did not.

Q. What was the capability of the kit at that time?

A. Just 6 alleles, that I mentioned previously.

Q. And just the 4 alleles at that location?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, we also had some testimony concerning your use of the word
inconclusive in your reports.

A. Yes.

Q. But let's take a look again at this one evidence item here, No. 31.

Now, you actually did a DQ Alpha test on evidence item 31?

A. Yes.

Q. And what -- what alleles did you see on the DQ Alpha strip for
evidence item 31?

A. The alleles that are up there are properly represented.

Q. 1.1, 1.2, weak 4, very weak 1.3?

A. Right.

Q. And --

MR. BLASIER: Your Honor, I object. That misstates the chart. That says
DOJ, doesn't say SID.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Are those the alleles that you saw --

MR. BLASIER: I'd like a ruling.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) These are the alleles that you saw when you did
the DQ Alpha test?

A. Yes.

Q. In the report, you reported inconclusive for 31. Why is that?

A. Because based upon that amount of alleles, that indicates a
mixture, and rather than make a statement on it that we couldn't be
sure of, we were uncertain at this point and just stated it as
inconclusive, didn't make any conclusions or draw any conclusions on
that particular stain.

Q. Thank you, sir.

MR. LAMBERT: Take this one down.

(Indicating to chart)

(Counsel displays exhibit entitled "Mr. Yamauchi's Diagram of Glove
Found at Rockingham.")

Q. (BY MR. LAMBERT) Mr. Blasier asked you whether in doing your
testing and sampling of the glove whether you did several tests down
here at the bottom of the glove, sir, do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. You also tested these other areas on the glove, didn't you, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

Now, when you -- when you ran -- you mentioned during -- during your
direct testimony that in addition to each item of evidence, there was
also a control for each item of evidence when you ran your PCR test.
Did those control swatches also go through the PCR test?

A. Yes, they ran through the same process.

Q. And what results did you get on the control swatches?

A. There were no results on that.

Q. And what does that tell us about the control swatch?

A. The way that's acting is acting in the form of what's called a
negative control saying that the process up from the sampling point
and when the control's taken off of the substrate which I explained
earlier, that process -- there's no contaminants being produced along
the way. And because we don't -- excuse me. Because we don't obtain
any results, that's an indication to us that the test was run soundly.

Q. So, Mr. Yamauchi, if you actually had blood on your glove and you
actually had that blood on your glove when you handled one of those
control swatches, would that have then shown up when you did the PCR
test of that control swatch?

A. If hypothetically I had blood on my gloves and I touched them to
the swatch, I would expect a possibility of that showing up.

Q. But for all of the controls that you tested, you got no hint of any
DNA being present; is that right?

A. The controls ran blank, yes.

Q. Now, Mr. Blasier asked you some questions about whether evidence
items were sealed or open, do you remember that, during the
cross-examination?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when LAPD books items of evidence, do they then seal the item
of evidence?

A. Yes, we seal our evidence items before we book them.

Q. Would you describe what you mean by sealing?

A. Well, what that in essence means is the final packaging -- let's
say we could have maybe ten items and -- to a certain box or
something. Well, that box before it's booked has to be taped shut and
across the tape a seal has to be placed to show that it was sealed by
such and such individual on such and such date, so on and so forth.

Q. And prior to the time that an evidence item is sealed, is it just
left in the open or is it in some kind of closed container?

A. The evidence items?

Q. Yeah. For example, the swatch, a blood swatch, is that just left
out in the open or is it in some kind of container before it's sealed?

A. Well, going through the processing, there's a drying process and
then proper handling after it's dry, you would put it in the bindles
and the bindles go into the coin envelopes, et cetera.

Q. So those aren't sealed but they're all in containers, those items
of evidence?

A. Of course they are, yes.

Q. And the blood vials that you talked about in this case, were they
closed, the ones that you dealt with when you got them?

A. Yes.

Q. They had caps on them?

A. Yes, they did.

Q. They weren't just open?

A. No.

Q. Finally, Mr. Blasier asked you some questions about item number 17
and how -- and the fact that it was originally recorded as item number
18.

Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. All right. Now, did you later find that that was an error and that
item number 18 should have been listed as item number 17?

A. Yes, I did. During the time that I was receiving these items to
sample, Dennis had not yet run the tally and and done the clerical
work to figure out what item numbers were finally going to assigned to
each item.

And I wrote my report out under the impression that that would be 18.
After he wrote his report, that item ended up being 17.

So a sheet was made to correct that miscommunication.

Q. Thank you.

MR. LAMBERT: No further questions.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER:

Q. Mr. Yamauchi, did you just say that when Mr. Fung gave you the
envelope, he didn't know what item number it was going to be?

A. The blood envelope?

Q. Yeah.

A. With Mr. Simpson's blood?

Q. Yeah.

A. No, I don't think he would have known specifically what item it
would end up with.

Q. How did it get 18?

A. I'm not sure. I can't remember every little detail but that's what
I was under the impression of. Either he told me or Andrea Mazzola
told me.

Q. There wasn't a 17 in red written on the envelope, was there?

A. No, there was no item number on that envelope.

Q. Thank you.

Now, did you also say that the coin envelopes that had the bindles
with the Bundy drops in them had been left unsealed?

A. Coin, Bundy blood, yes.

Q. You always seal items after you look at them so that -- and you
write your initials on the seal and there's special type tape that
says seal so that you can tell when somebody else -- when anybody
opens up an envelope, don't you?

A. On the final packaging, yes. The individual items don't necessarily
have to be sealed.

Q. The coin envelopes, the packaging is always sealed so that you know
how many times people have gone in and out of it, isn't that true?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Now, item 31.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 31.)

Q. This chart, under SID -- that's you guys, right -- says 1.1, 1.2,
weak 1.3, 4, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you report this result or did you report weak 4, very weak 1.3?

A. On my report was stated inconclusive.

Q. When did it become weak 1.3, 4?

A. That's what it always was on my data sheet. That's what's written
down.

Q. When did it become this result for purposes of documentation?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, irrelevant, argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I'm not sure. Because that result always was indicated on my data
sheet.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) But your sheet that we showed here, that you
brought in, that was introduced as your final results, isn't it?

A. That's my report, yes, it is.

Q. And then at some point, when this big chart was prepared, the
results were put on it as it appears here, correct?

A. Yes, somebody -- some attorney decided to put up my results off of
my data.

Q. Okay.

A. And I will confirm that that's what I got as far as my data is
concerned.

Q. But you took the conservative approach when you did your test and
when you found it inconclusive, right?

A. When I wrote that down, my initial report, yes, I did.

Q. And some attorney said we don't want you to be quite that
conservative, right?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) Now, you said that when you -- by the way, you
don't have your testing strip with you on this test?

A. No, I don't.

Q. That was turned over to the defense as well, was it not?

A. I certainly hope so.

Q. How intense was the 1.3 dot?

A. I don't recall.

Q. Compared to the C dot?

A. I imagine if I wrote weak it would have been less than the C dot.

Q. How about the 1.3?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, that's the one he just asked.

A. Didn't you just ask --

Q. (BY MR. BLASIER) I'm sorry, I thought I just asked for 4.

A. The 4, I'm not sure, I'd imagine was less than the C dot also.

Q. Now, you're saying that where you get that result, where you get
dots that are less than the C dot, that indicates a mixture?

A. Well, it can depending on the intensity.

Q. Didn't you just indicate that that indicates a mixture?

A. Yes, previously I said that.

Q. What did the manual say it means?

A. What does the manual say it means?

Q. Yes.

A. What part are you referring to?

Q. Doesn't the manual say that it could be a mixture, it could be
contamination, it could be a DX gene, or it would be
cross-hybridization?

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, calls for hearsay, irrelevant.

THE COURT: Overruled. Goes to this witness's knowledge.

A. No, I don't believe so.

Q. The manual didn't say that?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

How about the difference between the 1.3 and the 4, was there any
difference in intensity?

A. I have on my data sheet 1.3, very weak, weak 1.3, 4. So judging by
what I wrote on my data sheet, the 1.3 was probably a little weaker
than the 4, although this is a photocopy of my strip so I can't really
tell.

Q. Okay. So there was -- But your records indicates there was a
difference in intensity between those two, correct?

A. Yes, it does.

Q. Lots of times when you get a 1.3, that's an indication of
cross-hybridization, correct?

A. That's a possibility.

Q. So some attorney at some point decided we're going for call the 1.3
and the 4 real alleles.

MR. LAMBERT: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BLASIER: No further questions.

MR. LAMBERT: I have nothing further.

THE COURT: You may step down.

MR. KELLY: Judge, could we briefly?

THE COURT: You may.

THE COURT REPORTER: With the reporter?

MR. KELLY: No, it's not necessary.

(A bench conference was held which was not reported.)

THE COURT: Mr. Blasier, did you give her that exhibit, the one you
want a copy of?

MR. BLASIER: No, I didn't. I also want to introduce 1112 --

THE CLERK: Wait, wait. Okay.

MR. BLASIER: 1112, 1110, 2190, page 58 of 1412, and then from Mr.
Matheson's testimony, 2187, 308, 309, 2188, 1118, 1279, 1281, and
1275.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1112)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1110)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2190)

(The instrument herein described as page 58 was received in evidence
as Defendants' Exhibit No. 1412)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2187)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 308)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 309)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2188)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1118)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1279)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1281)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 1275)

MR. LAMBERT: These are from Mr. Matheson's testimony?

MR. BLASIER: Yes.

MR. LAMBERT: I may need to look at my notes before so I can see what
those items of evidence are.

THE COURT: Let me know if there are any.

MR. LAMBERT: Can I bring in 291, which is the Bundy results board? We
now have all results on that.

MR. BAKER: We'd object, it's cumulative.

THE COURT: Okay. Overruled.

MR. KELLY: Next witness?

THE COURT: Yeah.

MR. KELLY: John Edwards.

JOHN EDWARDS, called as a witness on behalf of the Plaintiffs, was
duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth so help you god~?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: And if you would please state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: John Philip Edwards, J-o-h-n P-h-i-l-i-p E-d-w-a-r-d-s.

MR. KELLY: Ready, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Yeah.

DIRECT-EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Morning, Detective?

A. Morning.

Q. Are you currently employed?

A. Yes, I am. I work for the City of Los Angeles. I'm assigned to Van
Nuys homicide.

Q. Okay. And what is your rank with the LAPD right now?

A. I'm a Detective Supervisor.

Q. Okay. Now, drawing your attention to January 1, 1989, at
approximately 4 AM were you on duty that day?

A. Yes, I was. I was in uniform in a black and white police vehicle
assigned as a training officer to a newer officer that just came on
the department.

Q. By the way, how many years have you been employed by the LAPD?

A. 26 years.

Q. Okay. Now, going back to January 1 of '89, did you have occasion to
receive a radio call at approximately 4 AM?

A. Yes, I did, to 360 North Rockingham.

Q. And what was the substance of that radio call?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, calls for hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled. Received only as to explain why the officer went
to a location.

A. Received a 911 call to that address, woman being beaten.

Q. Okay. And in that -- when that dispatch came in, did you proceed to
a particular location?

A. Yes, I did. I proceeded to 360 North Rockingham.

Q. And you eventually arrived there?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And within how long after reading the communication did you arrive
at that location?

A. Within approximately 10 minutes.

Q. Would you be able to describe, just in general terms, the climate
that particular early morning on New Year's Day, '89?

A. In the area of that address it's a hilly area. It was at night, it
was dark, it was cool, it was damp, and it had been like a misty,
light rain earlier that evening, so the ground was wet and the -- and
the air was still thick with mist.

Q. And approximately what time did you arrive at 360 North Rockingham?

A. Somewhere around 4 o'clock I believe.

Q. Okay. 4 AM?

A. Yes.

MR. KELLY: So I'll put up a diagram here.

(Counsel placed diagram entitled 360

North Rockingham Avenue Exhibit 116.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, Detective, what --

MR. KELLY: I'm sorry, that's 116, the exhibit number, Your Honor,
referring.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Can you explain, first of all, in what manner you
approached that location in your marked vehicle?

A. Yes. I came off of Sunset and I drove up Rockingham, I was driving
rapidly and I missed the first gate, I didn't even see it, and I went
around the corner and I saw the second gate and I stopped there.

Q. Okay. Did you stop directly in front of the gate on Ashford?

A. Little bit in that green area off to the side, not quite in front
of the gate because it appeared to me the gate opened outward.

Q. And what, if anything, happened upon your arrival there at that
location?

A. I got out of the car, walked over to the intercom box, it's a black
pole with a little box on the top with a button, and I pressed the
button to get someone's attention inside.

Q. Okay. Do you have a pointer there, by the way?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. I'm going to ask if you can step up by the board when you're giving
these answers.

(Witness complies, approaches board)

A. I came up Rockingham past this gate, parked my car approximately at
this location here, walked over and pressed the button on this
intercom box.

Q. And what, if anything, happened next?

A. Next thing I saw -- well, next thing that happened was a woman came
on the intercom box, and I said I'm a police officer, I'm here
responding to a 911 call, a woman has been beaten at this location, I
need to talk to her, I need to see her. And this woman responded,
everything's fine here, the police are not needed.

Q. By the way, were those gates to the entrance on Ashford open or
closed?

A. They were closed.

Q. And after that woman communicateed that to you, what, if anything,
did you do next?

A. I stood there. I told her I wasn't going to leave until I spoke to
the person that was being beaten and saw them personally, I was not
leaving. And within a few seconds a female Caucasian, blond hair,
wearing a white bra only and a light colored jump -- pants or sweat
pants or a pajama bottom, ran across right by the bushes and right
over directly to this control box -- ran across the driveway from the
bushes to the control box.

Q. And what, if anything, did this woman do upon her arrival at the
control box?

A. When she got to the control box she collapsed onto it. She
literally collapsed onto the control box and kept pushing on the
button about four, five times. Of course I couldn't see the button,
but it appears she was pushing on the button, and she yelled several
times to me, he's going to kill me, he's going to kill me.

Q. You were actually able to hear her say that at this time?

A. Yes.

Q. What, if anything, happened next after she was pushing the buzzer
and saying that?

A. Well, after she pushed the button several times she ran to the
gate. The gate hadn't opened yet. As she got to the gate it opened,
and she came flying through that open area of the gate, ran directly
to me and collapsed onto me.

Q. When you say she collapsed onto you, did she physically grab hold
of you?

A. Yes, she did.

Q. Okay.

A. Both arms.

Q. Both arms.

And could you describe to me exactly what she felt like in your arms
at that time?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) You were able to make physical contact with her with
your own arms, were you not?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Were you able to make any observations yourself in terms of what
you felt of Nicole's body at this time? Can you describe her body,
what you felt?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes. She was cold, wet, and shivering. And as I had my arms around
her upper torso and her back, I could feel her bones were shivering.

Q. And could you describe her overall demeanor at that time also,
detective?

A. She was crying, she was hysterical, and appeared to be very
frightened and exhausted.

Q. And what, if anything, did she say to you at that time when she
collapsed in your arms?

A. Well, she repeated again he's going to kill me, he's going to kill
me. I asked her -- I said -- says, well who's going to kill you? And
she responded O.J. So I wasn't quite sure who she meant. I had a
feeling from the initials, so I asked her do you mean the football
player, O.J. Simpson, and she says yes, O.J. Simpson.

Q. Okay. What, if anything, did you do next?

A. I took my flashlight out and I illuminated her face and her torso
to see if she had any injuries. At the same time I told my partner to
take off her jacket and put it on Nicole because she was shivering,
very cold. And I looked at her face and I could see a bruised swelling
on her right side of her forehead.

Q. Indicating above her right eye?

A. Yes, above her right eye and down a little bit and then -- a
swollen right eye, some sort of a mark or a scratch on her right
cheek, about a 1-inch cut above her left lip, just below her nose on
the outside, there was an open cut, you could see the blood, then a
little bit of blood was coming down between her teeth, in the cracks
between her teeth. And she -- when I asked her about the injuries, she
held up her -- she flipped up her upper lip and I could see a cut on
the inside of her lip. Then I saw a bruise and her eye was start --
swollen and blackend on the left eye, and I saw a human hand print on
the left side of her neck. I could actually see the three -- at least
three finger outlines.

Q. Okay. And you were utilizing your flashlight at that time when you
made these observations?

A. Yes, I was standing right next to her using my flashlight.

Q. And what, if anything, did Nicole say to you at that time?

A. Well, I asked her what happened to her, and she said that --

MR. LEONARD: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I asked her what happened to her and she said that O.J. had hit
her, kicked her, slapped her, and pulled her hair.

Q. After she told you those things, what, if anything, did you do next
for Nicole or with Nicole?

A. What I did was I had -- my partner and I walked her to the police
car which is just a short distance away, put her in the right rear
seat of the police vehicle, closed the door, and then my partner and I
got in the front seat and were looking back at her as she was crying.
And we were -- we asked her if she wanted to place O.J. Simpson under
arrest for beating her. She said yes. My partner then -- I told my
partner, I said well, give her a crime report to sign. Normally we
fill out those crime reports, but at this time I felt I needed to get
her to sign a crime report. And my partner handed it to her, she took
it rapidly and very determinedly signed it sideways, across, and --
instead of on the line she signed it sideways, in big letters signed
her name.

Q. By the way, while you were back in the car with your partner and
Nicole, were the gates to the Ashford Street entrance open or closed?

A. They closed again.

Q. Okay. Now, after Nicole had taken this action of signing off on the
record, you were back in the front seat, what, if anything, did you
observe next?

A. Well, she was crying, and she made a statement to us. She said --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I object, hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. She said, you guys come out here, you talk to him and then you
leave, you've been out here eight times before, you never did
anything, I want him arrested and I want my kids back.

Q. Was she still crying at this time?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, did there come a time after she made these statements that you
exited your vehicle again?

A. Yes. Once she said that and had signed the crime report, and my
partner was starting to get the detail boxes of the crime report
filled out, I walked back towards the front of the gate and stood
there looking in this direction. And pretty soon --

Q. Was the gate still closed at this time again?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

I'm sorry, go ahead.

A. Then I turned to walk back towards the car and the gate opened,
apparently, because a female came out of this yard area through the
gate and walked over to my car rapidly, without me knowing it.

Q. Prior to the appearance of that woman, had you observed anything or
anybody on the other side of the gate?

A. No.

Q. Okay. What happened next?

A. Well, this female -- she was a short female, Hispanic. She walked
over to the right rear door of the police car, she opened the door,
and by this time I was walking towards her cause I saw her. She
grabbed a hold of Nicole Simpson's right arm and she started pummeling
on her, and she says, Nicole, you don't want to do this, come, come
with me.

Q. Did you see Mr. Simpson at all prior to this woman showing up?

A. Yes. I think he came out before this -- I'm sorry, I got my
sequence -- cause he came out twice. He came out prior to this woman
-- this woman coming out.

Q. You want to back up a little bit?

A. Yes, I'm sorry. I was standing here looking, and Mr. Simpson came
out the front door, walked directly towards me wearing a bathrobe,
very determined, walked straight towards me, rapidly.

Q. And was this right after you had exited the vehicle?

A. Yes.

Q. And left Nicole in speaking to her?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you tell me, when Mr. Simpson was walking towards you, were you
able to observe what he was wearing at this time?

A. Yes. I used my flashlight to illuminate him as he got fairly close
to me and I saw that he was wearing approximately a 3/4 length
bathrobe, it was open, he was wearing some sort of underwear, shorts,
no shoes and no other garments.

Q. And what, if anything, happened next as he approached the gate?

A. Well, he walked rapidly towards me and I thought he was going to
talk to me, but what he did is he looked at the patrol car and he
started yelling in the direction of the patrol car, and it was very
animated.

Q. Were you able to recall anything that he was yelling at that time?

A. Yes. He was yelling I don't want that woman in my house any more, I
don't want that woman in my house -- in my bed any more, I got two
other women, I don't want that woman in my bed any more.

Q. And did he get all the way up to the gate at that time?

A. Yes, he was about one to two feet from the gate when he did that.

Q. And was the gate still closed?

A. Yes.

Q. And how far were you from the gate on the other side?

A. I was about a foot from the other side of the gate.

Q. And did you have your flashlight on at that point still?

A. Up until the point that he got right up to me. I turned it off.

Q. Okay. Did you ever see Mr. Simpson prior to that night in any sort
of situation?

A. Just in football interviews, just on television.

Q. Okay. And would you be able to describe -- first of all, were you
able to see Mr. Simpson's face clearly that night when he approached
you at the gate?

A. Yes.

Q. Could you describe as best you can his facial characteristics at
this time when he arrived at the gate?

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, objection, lack of relevance.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. At the time that he started yelling his face was in a rage, he was
very exited. He was yelling and he had -- there's two veins on his
head, one on each side of his head, up before you got to the hairline,
and they were pulsating rapidly, you could see him very -- see them
very visibly.

Q. What, if anything, did you say to Mr. Simpson at that time when he
was up at the gate?

A. I told him that his wife had been beaten, she said that he's the
one that did it, she wanted him arrested, and that I had seen visible
injuries to her, trauma, and I -- it was my duty to place him under
arrest for spousal battery.

Q. Did he respond at this time to the statements you made to him?

A. Yes. He said that I didn't -- I didn't hit her, I just pushed her
out of bed. Then he made a statement -- says, you know, you guys be up
here eight times before and now you want to arrest me for this, and he
emphasized this. And he said, this is not a big deal, it's a family
matter, why make a big deal of it.

Q. And what, if anything, did you respond to that?

A. I told him I was obligated to place him under arrest and -- for
spousal battery, and I told him when my supervisor got here, got to
the gate, then we would have to place him under arrest. I told him go
inside and change clothes.

Q. And did he go inside at that time?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. After Mr. Simpson went inside, what, if anything, happened next?

A. That's when the gate opened. I walked back towards the car, the
gate opened, and a female came out.

Q. If you could tell us once again, what happened when the female came
out through the gate?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. After she had left the car that Nicole was in, what, if anything,
did this woman do?

A. She walked -- I didn't pay attention to her. Somehow she got that
gate open, she went back inside, and the gate closed again.

Q. What, if anything, happened next after she went back inside the
gate?

A. About three minutes later, O.J. Simpson came back out. He walked
right back to the -- only this time he went towards the corner of the
gate, towards the wall, and we talked over -- just a little bit over
the wall.

Q. Was he still wearing the bathrobe at that time?

A. No. Now he was wearing a dark suit, jogging suit or running suit,
either blue or dark blue. I couldn't be sure about the color.

Q. Okay. And what happened then as he approached the corner of the
gate there?

A. He told me -- he says, what makes you so special, why do you want
to make a big deal of this, you know. And again, I told him -- I says,
you know, it's spousal battery, I have injuries, trauma, your wife
wants you arrested, you have to be arrested for this. About that time
a black-and-white patrol car came driving up the street, it was my
supervisor, and I turned my direction from Mr. Simpson. I thought he
understood what was about to occur, so I turned my direction to my
supervisor, walked over onto the roadway and talked to my supervisor.

Q. In which direction was your supervisor's car facing?

A. He had pulled up and parked a little bit in front of my car, just
-- blocking just the left front of it. And I walked over -- we both
got out of the car and we were talking.

Q. Was his car facing the same direction as yours?

A. Basically, yes.

Q. Okay. And what, if anything, happened when you went -- by the way,
who was your supervisor?

A. Sergeant Vinger, V-i-n-g-e-r.

Q. What, if anything, happened after you went to speak to Sergeant
Vinger?

A. I was talking to the sergeant, I heard a car start up, I walked
away, I looked through the gate and I could see that a blue Bentley
had -- the lights were on, and it drove out of this driveway down
Rockingham towards Sunset, went out of the driveway at around 15 miles
an hour, and when it got in this area here, it was on up towards 35,
45 when it left down Rockingham.

MR. LEONARD: Can we just -- can the record indicate that the officer
was pointing just below the gate southbound on Rockingham when he
indicated the vehicle was going 45 miles an hour.

MR. PETROCELLI: That misstates his testimony.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) When the vehicle --

MR. PETROCELLI: 15 miles an hour.

Q (BY MR. KELLY) When the vehicle reached Rockingham initially, could
you be able to approximate what speed it was going as it entered onto
Rockingham?

A. As it was going -- as it was coming out of the driveway towards
Rockingham, it was going about 15 miles an hour.

MR. LEONARD: Just so the record is clear, the witness has indicated
right at the entrance to the Rockingham gate on Rockingham is at the
point at which the vehicle accelerated to 45 miles an hour. May the
record reflect that?

THE COURT: No.

MR. LEONARD: 35.

THE COURT: Reelicit the testimony.

MR. PETROCELLI: Also, objection, object to interfering with the
examination.

THE COURT: Overruled. He has a right to have a complete record.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) You indicated that the vehicle was going
approximately 15 miles an hour when it reached Rockingham Avenue; is
that correct?

A. Right. This is a long driveway. It was up around 15 miles an hour
as it reached the gate.

Q. Okay. And after going through the gate onto Rockingham Avenue what
did you observe next?

A. I observed the vehicle going away from me on Rockingham towards
Sunset, and it appeared it was -- accelerated up to 35, 45 miles an
hour.

Q. And that is the street as it headed down Rockingham Avenue?

A. Right.

Q. And how long a distance were you able to see that car accelerate as
it left the Rockingham entrance?

A. Very short distance because Rockingham curves, bushes -- It went
out of view.

Q. And what, if anything, did you do after you observed the Bentley
leave?

A. The Sergeant and I got back in our cars, and I -- once he moved his
car, he will make a U-turn, go back down Rockingham towards Sunset in
an attempt to catch up with the Bentley, and I broadcast on Symplex --
that's a car-to-car frequency, not over the city frequencies -- that
we were in pursuit of a blue Bentley, O.J. Simpson driving, and we
started to -- started searching through the area for the Bentley, and
never did find it.

Q. By the way, when you took off after the Bentley was Nicole still in
the car?

A. Yes, she was in the rear seat.

Q. What was her demeanor at that time as you were all off looking for
the Bentley?

A. She was crying, hysterical.

Q. And what happened next after you weren't able to locate the
Bentley?

A. I took Sunset down to -- I think it was Bundy -- Bundy down to
Wilshire. We ended up around Wilshire and Bundy, and couldn't find the
car anywhere.

So I asked her if she would like to go to the emergency hospital so we
could get her treated for her injuries. She said, no, she wanted to go
home to her kids. So then I asked her -- I said well, would you go to
the photo lab for us so we can get some good 35 millimeter photos of
your injuries. It's downtown. She says no, I want to go home to my
kids.

So then I explained to her -- I said West L.A. Station is really not
that far from here, and we got to turn around and go back anyway, can
we go over to the station and I'll use a Polaroid camera and we'll
take some quick pictures of you, and I'll take you right back home to
yor kids. She agreed to that.

So I got over to West L.A. Police Station on -- what street is that
on? It's off Sunset -- I mean it's off Santa Monica. It's on --
escapes me. Starts with a B. Then I parked in front and went inside
the front entrance of the police station, the public entrance, to the
front desk.

Q. Before going in there, when you were driving around with Nicole in
the car, do you recall whether the vehicle windows were open or
closed?

A. Oh, it was cold and damp outside. She was shivering. We had the
windows up. I think the heater was on low.

Q. And you had had occasion to speak to Nicole up close when she had
first fell into your arms, had you not?

A. Yes.

Q. Is there any time that you notice the -- you noticed the odor of
alcohol, either in the car or in any of your conversations with her?

A. No. I didn't notice any odor of alcohol.

Q. Did she act intoxicated in any way?

A. No.

Q. Now, you indicated that you then arrived at the station to take
some photos. Did you in fact locate a camera, first of all, that
night?

A. Yes. Fortunately, the desk officer was able to give me a Polaroid
camera; I believe it was a black Polaroid 600. And I took three
photographs of Nicole at that time; one was a full body length
photograph, mainly of the right side to depict the mud that was on the
right side of these long pajama type pants, on the right leg.

Then I took two photographs of her face; one depicting a little bit to
the -- to the right side, and a little bit of the front and left.

And then the camera was out of film. I gave the camera back to the
desk officer and had my partner take her inside.

Q. Was there any other film available?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, calls for speculation.

MR. KELLY: I'll withdraw the question.

Can I see Exhibit No. 5, Steve.

(The instrument herein described as photograph of side of Nicole Brown
Simpson's face was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit
No. 5.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Behind you -- Detective, I'd ask you to step back
and look up on the board there, and I ask you if you recognize that
photograph?

A. Yes. This is the -- looks like the second or third photograph I
took. Here's one of the photographs laying on the desk, this is the
right-side photograph of Nicole Simpson depicting the mud on the right
pants leg, and my partner's uniform jacket is on her. Underneath that
jacket is just a white bra.

Q. Other than the jacket, does that fairly and accurately represent
her appearance when you first saw her when you arrived at Rockingham?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. And I notice she has bare feet. Was she shoeless when you arrived
at Rockingham?

A. This is exactly how she looked. She was barefoot, no shirt, no
purse.

MR. KELLY: Exhibit No. 4, Steve.

MR. LEONARD: Which number was that, please?

MR. KELLY: That was 5.

MR. LEONARD: Okay.

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 4.)

Q. Do you recognize that photograph, Detective?

A. Yes. I had her pull her hair back to take a photograph of the front
and right side of her face, as best as I could. And this depicts some
bruising on the right forehead above the right eye. The right eye is
swollen above it and below. And there's a mark or a scratch on the --
on the right. You can see a -- is this the same photo? Then there's --
got big on me (indicating to TV screen zooming in on photo) -- Then a
scratch underneath her nose on the left side is approximately a 1-inch
open gash or scratch going into her lip. You can't see the one below
it, under -- I mean underneath the lip.

Q. Okay. Can you first point out the scratch under the nose you're
referring to?

A. Yes. This is the 1 -- approximately 1-inch or so scratch, open
scratch.

Q. That where she lifted up her lip and you could see?

A. The corresponding cut underneath her lip.

Q. Above her right eye, are you able to better discern the injury on
her forehead at this point?

A. There's this swelling -- swollen area. It's easier to see with the
naked eye. This photo depicts it a little bit. This is a swollen area
of redness, and then that's some sort of a scratch pattern up here,
and another scratch down below, and this area is all swollen.

Q. Okay. By the way, did that picture fairly and accurately represent
her facial appearance at that time the photo was taken?

A. No. The picture is not of good quality. She was actually injured
more than that.

Q. And you also indicated earlier that you observed a neck injury or
markings when you first arrived at Rockingham. Are those -- is that
apparent on this picture here?

A. No. It doesn't show up on the photograph at all.

Q. Okay.

MR. KELLY: Can I see Exhibit No. 3, Steve.

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 3.)

A. This is a little bit more towards the front. I was trying to show
the -- I had her pull her hair up a little bit more off the left side
to show the swollen eye. There was a scratch here and her forehead was
swollen here, and the eye was swollen -- starting to blacken. And
again, you can't -- you can see that there's a cut right there over
her lip. You can't see that handprint.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, this would be a good time.

THE COURT: 1:30.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case. Don't form or express
any opinion.

(At 11:56 A.M. a recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996
1:39 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: All right. At this time, the Court had a previous set of
evidentiary motions that the Court took under submission, that the
Court is now ready to issue its ruling on.

The Court initially will address Plaintiff Goldman's motion to allow
testimony of Dr. Deitz and Dr. Dutton regarding motive and spousal
homicide and defendants' motion in limine thereon.

Plaintiff seeks to admit Dr. Dietz' testimony of his opinion of the
general motive of the person who killed Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron
Goldman and the killer's behavior at the crime scene, based upon an
analysis of the crime scene and the autopsies, and the motive that the
defendant had for committing the murders based on various factors,
primarily including the history of the relationship between defendant
and Nicole Brown Simpson and defendant's past behavior.

Plaintiff seeks to admit Dr. Dutton's testimony of his opinion that
spousal homicides have certain characteristics for the purpose of
supporting Plaintiff's contention that the evidence establishes the
existence of these characteristics concerning defendant and Nicole
Brown Simpson (sic), and this was a spousal homicide committed by
defendant.

The testimony of both Dr. Dietz and Dr. Dutton is offered to establish
a profile of spousal homicide, into which Plaintiff endeavors to
establish the identity of the killer by showing that defendant fits
the profile.

This implies that there is a science of spousal homicide which can
establish that every homicide of a spouse by a spouse contained
certain characteristics, that a spouse who had these characteristics
would necessarily commit spousal homicide, that there could not be
spousal homicide without these characteristics, that a spouse had
these characteristics; i.e., a spousal relationship, spousal abuse
that was physical and/or verbal, estrangement, jealousy, stalking, was
necessarily the killer of a former spouse who died a violent death.

This Court is not satisfied that opinion testimony of this nature
rises to the level of acceptability in the legal or scientific
community.

As discussed in People versus Bowker, 203 Cal.App.3d, 385, it is one
thing to say that in child sexual abuse syndrome cases, a child often
exhibits a certain characteristic; but it is quite another to conclude
that where a child meets certain criteria, it can be predicted with
reasonable certainty -- a reasonable degree of certainty that the
child has been abused.

The same analysis applies in the present case. Say that spousal
homicide often exhibits certain characteristics, it is quite another
matter to say that this particular homicide was a spousal homicide
and/or that this defendant perpetrated it.

Such testimonial opinion by experts inappropriately supplants the
function of jurors of evaluating the evidence by giving the experts'
imprimatur and scientific approval upon the Plaintiff's theory of the
case.

Also as noted in Bowker, quote, "There may be more danger where the
application is left to the jury because the jurors' education and
training may not have sensitized them to the dangers of drawing
predictive conclusions." Unquote.

Where the matter at issue is the identity of the killer of two people,
and the evidence relied upon by the proponents of the expert testimony
is not beyond common experience, to-wit, a relationship of former
spouses, alleged abuse by one spouse of the other, jealousy, stalking,
the manner of killings, the jurors are clearly capable of evaluating
the evidence without the need of an expert to guide their conclusions.

The motions in limine to preclude the testimony of Dr. Dietz and Dr.
Dutton are granted and they are excluded for the foregoing reasons.

The Court also feels that the same analysis as I discussed in Bowker
applies in the application of Evidence Code Section 352; that is, the
prejudicial aspect of allowing such testimony from experts is
prejudicial and its probative value does not overcome that prejudicial
aspect of it.

The other issue that the Court now addresses is Plaintiff Goldman's
motion to allow --

Oops.

(Pause in proceedings.)

THE COURT: The other issue is Plaintiff Goldman's motion to preclude
prior testimony of Fuhrman tendered by Defendant under Evidence Code
Section 1292 and motion to preclude reference to Fuhrman's perjury
conviction.

Plaintiff gave Defendant sufficient notice of his objection to the use
of Fuhrman's prior testimony under Evidence Code Section 1292 and the
conviction of perjury prior to opening statement. And the Court had
reserved ruling on this issue pending further briefing.

The fact that this issue was not raised prior to the deadline for
motions in limine, it is excused by this Court, finding it excusable,
in view of the unsettled status of Fuhrman's potential availability as
a witness at the time because of the then pending criminal proceedings
and plea of nolo contendere therein, and that the Defendant is not
presently prejudiced because Defendant had ample time to prepare,
since October 21, 1996, when this present motion was filed, it now
being November 18.

Plaintiff contends that Fuhrman's prior testimony is not admissible
under Evidence Code Section 1292 because the People did not have the
right to cross-examine Fuhrman with an interest in motive similar to
Plaintiff, that the People called Fuhrman as their witness, conducted
direct examination and did not have the opportunity to cross-examine
him, and defended, rather than challenged, his testimony.

The precise language of Section 1292 of the Evidence Code states,
quote:

Cross-Examination:

Section 1291 of the Evidence Code allows former testimony to be used
against the party that offered it in the prior proceeding, or that
party's successor in interest, or the admission of former testimony
against a party who had the opportunity to cross-examine with an
interest in motive similar to that in the prior proceeding.

The legislative history notes the distinct languages of both Sections
1291 and 1292, but the legislature, in Section 1292, made no provision
for admission of such prior testimony offered by the party in the
prior proceeding, against another party in a subsequent proceeding,
except when it was subjected to, quote, "cross-examination." Unquote.

The term "cross-examination" is a defined term in Evidence Code
Section 761.

Section 761 defines it as, quote, "The examination of a witness by a
party other than the direct examiner." Close quote.

The legislature is presumed to know what it included in its own
enactments, particularly when it defines the terms it used in that
same enactment.

Federal Rule of Evidence Section 804(b)(1) allows prior testimony
where there was opportunity to, quote, "develop the testimony by
direct, cross, or redirect examination," close quote specifically
including the term "direct . . . examination," which distinguishes its
scope from that of Evidence Code Section 1292.

Plaintiff has no interest in offering Fuhrman as a witness. Plaintiff
has established the circumstances of the discovery and collection of
the Rockingham glove by testimony of percipient witnesses, independent
of Fuhrman. Defendant has no apparent need for Fuhrman's testimony,
other than to show his alleged bias against defendant, and his
impeachment by his conviction of the felony of perjury.

In other words, Defendant is not offering Fuhrman's testimony for any
evidentiary purpose other than to discredit him as a witness.

Plaintiff has not offered Fuhrman as a witness; thus, there is no
basis for his impeachment.

Plaintiff Goldman's motion to preclude the introduction of Fuhrman's
prior testimony in the criminal case and to further exclude reference
to his perjury conviction is granted on the foregoing grounds. MR.
GELBLUM: Thank you, Your Honor.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Okay. You may resume.

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: John Philip Edwards.

JOHN PHILIP EDWARDS the witness on the stand at the time of the
luncheon recess, having been previously duly sworn, was examined and
testified further as follows:

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Detective Edwards, when we broke for lunch, you just finished
testifying as to the three Polaroids you had taken of Nicole Brown
Simpson at West L.A. station; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, after you had taken those three photographs of Nicole, what,
if anything, did you do next?

A. I retained those photographs in my possession.

Then I walked back out to the patrol car with Nicole Simpson. My
partner and I drove her back to her home.

Q. Okay.

What, if anything, did you do when you got back to her house?

A. She operated the gate which allowed us inside. We dropped her off
and then returned en route back to the station to complete the crime
report.

Q. When you dropped her off, did you happen to see that Bentley in the
driveway that you had observed earlier?

A. No, it was not in the driveway.

It was now daylight.

Q. And what, if anything, happened when you were en route back to the
station?

A. About 15 minutes after we dropped her off, I got another message
over my M.D.T., mobile digital terminal, in the car.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, calls for hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) You received a communication in your car?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

As a result of that communication you received, what, if anything, did
you do next?

A. I returned back to the Rockingham address.

Q. And did you drive by the residence at that point?

A. Yes.

I looked for the Bentley and I didn't see it.

Q. Okay.

What, if anything, happened next?

A. I parked approximately three houses up from the address for 45
minutes, in hopes of seeing the Bentley return.

Q. And did you see it return?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Did you take any further action after you did not see the Bentley
return?

A. I radioed the station and asked them to call Nicole Simpson at her
home, and ask her if the defendant, O.J. Simpson, was at the house.

And they did, and they said that --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, calls for hearsay. Objection at this point.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Just yes or no, Detective: Did you receive a
response as to whether Mr. Simpson was home or not?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And as a result of that response, did you remain in that location
or did you leave?

A. I left.

Q. Now -- and did you have occasion to go back to that location any
other time that day?

A. No.

Q. Or any future time after that day at all?

A. No.

Q. Did you have occasion to fill out a police report as a result of
that incident later that morning?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And how was that filled out?

A. I directed my -- the officer I was training, Patricia Milewski,
M-I-L-E-W-S-K-I (sic) to complete the report because I was training
her, and then I read the report, I made some changes on it in my own
handwriting. Then we turned the report in.

Q. Was this done in the normal course of your duties that day?

A. Yes.

Q. And was this a business record of the LAPD, kept in the normal
course of business, also?

A. Yes.

And we booked the photographs as evidence, also.

MR. KELLY: Steve, can I see --

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) I'm going to ask you to take a look at this,
Detective, and see if you recognize that as the report you --

I believe is that 2191.

A. Yes, it is 2191 on this yellow piece of paper.

(The instrument herein referred to as three-page report with an
attached property report was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2191.)

A. This is the four-page -- a three-page report with an attached
property report that we completed.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, at this time I'd like to move in Exhibits 3, 4,
and 5, which were the three photographs, and this also, Exhibit 2191.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I have an objection only to the last exhibit.
I believe that calls for hearsay, doesn't fall within any exception.

I'll remind the Court of its previous ruling with regard to Sergeant
Berris' -- or Detective Berris' report from the Chicago Police
Department.

THE COURT: Can I see counsel at side bench.

MR. LEONARD: With the reporter? Need the reporter?

THE COURT: Yeah.

(The following proceedings were heard at the bench, with the
reporter.)

THE COURT: Okay. Didn't we have a hearing on this?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes.

MR. KELLY: Yes, we did.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor permitted the production of the
out-of-court statements made in the police reports in one of the
motions in limine.

THE COURT: What day was that?

MR. PETROCELLI: I think that was on the 16th, Your Honor. September 16
was that big day we had all the hearings.

MR. KELLY: I think it was number 9 -- defense's motion in limine
number 9 or 12.

MR. LEONARD: Every statement made in a police report is admissible.

MR. PETROCELLI: None of Nicole's out-of-court statements were
admissible under 1240 of the Evidence Code as spontaneous statements;
plus, the document itself is a business record.

It's unlike the Berris police reports, where you don't have
spontaneous statements. That's the difference.

THE COURT: All right. The Court ruled that statements in the police
report qualify spontaneous declarations and are within the parameters
of Section 1280 of the Evidence Code, and also under 1240. And the
Court allowed the statements of Nicole that were made to the police
officers.

Now the objection is to the report itself, isn't it?

MR. LEONARD: Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's a business record.

THE COURT: I'm sorry?

MR. PETROCELLI: It was a report, a business record. They established
the foundational elements and the statements of Nicole all qualify as
spontaneous statements under 1240. So I think that covers all the
hearsay rulings.

MR. LEONARD: There's no foundation for that.

MR. PETROCELLI: For what?

MR. LEONARD: Every one of them is spontaneous.

MR. PETROCELLI: Every statement he elicited from Nicole is at a time
of stress, as indicated by his questions.

MR. KELLY: She was crying.

THE COURT: Okay. What in particular are you objecting to?

MR. LEONARD: Well, it's not necessarily -- are you -- is this the only
one you intend to get in?

MR. KELLY: We'll take one at a time.

MR. LEONARD: Okay.

Well, there's a statement in the --

MR. PETROCELLI: This one?

MR. LEONARD: No. I -- no. I can't point to anything in here other than
I would point out that this report was not written by this officer. He
claims that he had some authority over it and that he reviewed it.
There's, I suppose, the impeachment.

I wonder why these guys want this. For instance, this -- she reports
that Nicole came out and said that Simpson said to her, "I'll kill
you."

Okay. That's not what this witness said. This witness said that Nicole
ran out and said, he's going to kill me. That's a major difference.
There is a threat; whereas, the other statement is her state of mind
as to what was going to happen to her. This is radically different.

And I think if they're going to try to put this in, they're obliged to
bring a witness in so we can cross-examine the witness.

What I mean, this particular officer who wrote this is not this guy;
some other officer wrote this, Milewski or whatever her name is. I
think it's unfair.

MR. KELLY: Well, it goes --

THE COURT: Could you keep your voice down.

MR. KELLY: I'm sorry.

That goes into evidence. They had every opportunity to use this
witness to impeach him.

MR. LEONARD: I'm to impeach him with the oral statement -- I'm to
impeach him with a victim's state of mind. Lovely.

MR. KELLY: He indicated he had firsthand knowledge of everything,
indicates it in the report.

MR. LEONARD: He contradicted himself. I think that goes to reliability
of the report. He didn't say anything about a threat from Simpson.
That was not elicited, nor has he testified to that in any prior
proceeding, and it's not in any subsequent reports.

I think we're at a distinct disadvantage. I don't want to have to
impeach the guy with a worse statement. It's not fair.

THE COURT: Okay. I'll stand on the ruling I made on September 17.
Overruled.

MR. LEONARD: It's coming in?

THE COURT: Yeah.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, to confirm, 3, 4, 5, and 2191 have all been
moved into evidence at this time; is that correct?

THE CLERK: Yes.

THE COURT: Yes.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 3 for
identification was received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 4 for
identification was received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 5 for
identification was received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2191 for
identification was received in evidence.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, Detective Edwards, did you ever see Mr. Simpson
again after you saw him that morning on New Year's Day, 1989?

A. Not personally.

Q. And did you ever see Nicole Brown Simpson after that morning of New
Years Day 1989 when you dropped her off?

A. No.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: Cross-examine.

MR. KELLY: Judge, could we approach just briefly again on one matter?

THE COURT: On what?

MR. KELLY: It's related to something different than before.

THE COURT: All right.

(The following proceedings were heard at the bench, with the
reporter.)

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, this has to do with cross-examination of this
witness. That's why I'm bringing this up right now. It wasn't related
to what we were discussing before.

In Mr. Baker's opening statement he made reference to this witness
being named in what's called a Christopher Commission report, which
was a report compiled by independent attorneys and others that cited
44 police officers for certain alleged violations such as unusual use
of force.

The way this report was filed was, this commission did a statistical
analysis using computers to determine which officers had the most
complaints lodged against them. They never interviewed the police
officers; they never interviewed any of the complainants; there's no
document that's relied upon at all by the Los Angeles Police
Department, and none of the complaints against this particular officer
have ever been sustained.

None of the complaints alleged in there related to this particular
incident of New Year's Day, 1989.

I would ask that the defense be precluded from referring to the
Christopher Commission or its substance in the context of their
cross-examination.

MR. BAKER: Well, Number one, the Christopher Commission report is
relied upon by the LAPD.

Number two, he was an officer that was -- he -- it was indicated was
one of the worse. And -- Of the 9,000 in LA.

Number three, there will be testimony about his threats of violence to
O.J. Simpson while he was at the gate, and his demeanor is consistent
with -- at the gate, although he certainly denies it now. He's the
model of decorum now, that in fact, he was abusive to Simpson. And it
was witnessed by Michelle, the housekeeper, and it's been testified to
by O.J.

THE COURT: I'll sustain the objection as to reference to the
Christopher Commission.

You may inquire about any threats he made.

MR. PETROCELLI: To Mr. Simpson?

THE COURT: Yeah, to explain his absence from the scene.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. I'll try to stay behind the podium this time, Your Honor.

Detective Edwards, what did you do to prepare for your testimony
today?

What items did you read?

Whom did you talk to?

What did you do?

A. Let's see.

Yesterday, I met with plaintiffs' counsel, Mr. Kelly, for about 45
minutes, approximately three, four blocks from this court. And he just
asked me a few questions, and I reviewed my report.

And then I met again today with Mr. Kelly for about ten or fifteen
minutes prior to walking over here to the court.

Q. Did you look at your prior testimony from the criminal trial?

A. I browsed through that, yes.

Q. Browsed through it?

A. Yes, highlighted.

Q. How much time did you spend looking at it?

A. Approximately ten, fifteen minutes.

Q. Did you look at both the direct and the cross-examinations?

A. Briefly.

Q. Well, did you want to make sure that you gave testimony that was
basically consistent with your criminal trial testimony, or did you
want to make sure of that when you looked at the transcript of your
prior testimony?

A. Yes, somewhat.

Q. Did you know anything -- after having sat up here and answered some
questions before lunch, did you think about at lunch whether there was
anything inconsistent that you had testified in your direct
examination from what you had stated in your criminal trial testimony?

Did you think about that?

MR. KELLY: Objection as to form.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you consider that, sir?

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: No.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You testified that you looked -- that you also
reviewed your report. And I assume you're referring to the basically
contemporaneous report that was prepared by your partner?

A. Not only that, my subsequent supplemental report.

Q. What Mr. Kelly was referring to is Exhibit 1291. That was a report
that was prepared what, the next day?

MR. PETROCELLI: It's 2191.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Excuse me, 2191.

That was prepared on what, the 1st of January 1989?

A. The day of the occurrence.

Q. Okay.

You mentioned that you had asked your partner -- and what was her name
again?

A. Patricia Milewski.

Q. She's still a police officer?

A. Yes, she is. She is instructing at the police academy.

Q. Here in Los Angeles?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. You instructed her to prepare a report, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you wanted that report to be -- to completely and accurately
represent what had occurred just hours before, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And in fact, you reviewed it to make sure everything that was in
there was accurate and that there was a complete description of what
had occurred; isn't that right, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. That was important because this was going to memorialize what had
occurred; and you wanted to make sure, for instance, if you had to
testify sometime in the future, that it would be accurate and would be
complete, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. All right. That's something that you do on a daily basis as a
police officer, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You realize how important accurate and complete reports are, don't
you, Officer?

A. Yes. That's why we --

MR. KELLY: Objection.

THE WITNESS: -- quite often make supplemental reports, to bring out
details that we may have forgotten in the original report. And we do
that quite often.

Q. Okay.

But in any event, you took the time to review the report that your
partner had prepared; and, in fact, you said you made some additions,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

You described in some detail discussions that you had with both Nicole
Brown Simpson and O.J. Simpson, referring to other times that the
police allegedly had been out to Rockingham, correct?

Do you remember that in your direct testimony?

A. Yes.

Q. And in fact, if you recall, both Nicole Brown Simpson, and minutes
later, O.J. Simpson, used the same exact language, basically, didn't
they?

Let me --

A. Close, but not quite.

Q. Let me refresh your recollection.

Didn't they both say, according to you, you guys have been out here
eight times before?

First Nicole said that; minutes later, O.J. Simpson said that. Do you
remember testifying to that?

A. Right. They both said that in a sentence, but the sentence was
different.

Q. Focusing on the number, they both said the number eight, didn't
they?

A. Yes.

Q. Not ten, not several, not many, but the number eight, right?

A. Exactly.

Q. Now, I want to you take a look at what's been marked as 2191.

Show me in that report where there's any indication of any discussion
about police being out there on prior occasions.

And this is a report that was prepared at your behest, reviewed by you
the next day, correct?

A. Yes. It doesn't have the original report. It's in the supplemental.

Q. Now, when you reviewed that report, did you remember that it wasn't
in there and suggest that it be in there?

Did you remember at the time when you reviewed the report the next
day?

A. It wasn't the next day; it was the same day, January 1, 1989.

Q. And all events were fresh in your mind, correct?

A. That's right.

Q. Much fresher than they were when you did a supplemental report a
month and a half later, right?

Wouldn't you agree with that?

A. I remembered quite a few details later on that I should have put in
the report; that's true.

Q. The -- what was it that sparked your memory six weeks later, sir?
Anything in particular?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Argumentative. Object to the form, also.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: The City Attorney asked me to relay exactly what was said
in detail back and forth, so I wrote it down.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) But when you reviewed it the next day, sir --

A. It wasn't the next day; it was January 1, 1996.

MR. KELLY: '89, you mean?

THE WITNESS: Excuse me. Today is '96 it's 1989, January 1, the same
day as the incident.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) It wasn't in the report that was made by your
partner, nor did you ask your partner to include it in the report,
correct?

A. Apparently not. It's not in the report.

Q. Now, you also testified, if I'm not mistaken -- correct me if I'm
wrong -- that you -- that you did not smell alcohol on Nicole Brown
Simpson's breath?

A. That's correct.

Q. Remember testifying to that?

A. Yes, that's what I said.

Q. Now, in your review of your prior criminal testimony, did you come
across the part of your cross-examination by Mr. Cochran, where you
were asked a series of questions about this very same subject, the
smell of alcohol --

A. I --

Q. -- on Nicole Brown Simpson's breath?

Did you come across that?

A. I didn't review that part.

Q. Well, let's review it together.

MR. KELLY: Objection as to the form, Your Honor.

MR. LEONARD: Withdrawn.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Do you recall being asked -- this is at 12508 --
do you recall being asked the following questions: "And you had
occasion, did you not,

to get very close to Nicole Brown Simpson on

this night; is that correct? "A. Well, she grabbed me and hung

onto me, yes."

Do you remember that question and that answer?

A. Yes.

MR. LEONARD: "You got very close to her; is

that correct? "A. Yes."

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Do you remember that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. (MR. LEONARD) Reading: "Did you have occasion to determine

whether or not she had been drinking that

particular night? "A. I didn't smell any

significant alcoholic beverage on her

breath. I don't believe I did."

Do you remember giving that answer to that question?

A. That's correct.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) (Reading.) "Q. I'm not asking about

significant alcoholic beverage. Did you

smell any alcoholic beverage on her breath? "A. Not enough that I
would be

able to detect. I don't remember."

Do you remember giving that answer to that question?

A. Yes.

Q. Next question, I don't -- I don't understand that answer, not
enough. What does that mean?

(Reading.) "A. Well, I can't remember

smelling an alcoholic beverage on her

breath."

Do you remember giving that answer to that question, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Next question:

"So the answer is, you don't know one

way or the other; is that correct? "A. I just can't remember

smelling alcoholic beverage on her breath. "Q. The answer is, you
don't know

at this point, right? "A. Okay. I don't know."

Now, when you testified at the criminal trial, that was on January 31,
1995, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you testified at this trial, as we've just elicited, that you
don't know whether she had alcoholic beverage on her breath; isn't
that right, sir?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Misstates his testimony; is also argumentative
at this point, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I didn't smell any alcohol on her breath.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Next question is", "Did I accurately read you
those

questions?"

And your answer is:

"I don't know if you accurately read

them at all because I'm not seeing what

you're reading. But I didn't smell any

alcohol on her breath."

Would you like to look the at transcript, sir?

MR. LEONARD: May I approach?

THE COURT: You may.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) And go right down here, read over this page.

That's what I read.

MR. KELLY: Are those the same questions you read before, Mr. Leonard?

MR. LEONARD: Yes.

Would you like to look at it?

MR. KELLY: I glanced a little at it.

(Pause in proceedings.)

THE WITNESS: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did I read those questions and your answers
accurately, sir?

A. Yes, you did.

Q. Is there -- is your memory now refreshed as to what you said at the
criminal trial, sir?

A. Yes; I didn't smell any alcohol on her breath.

Q. Did you say in the end, when you were finished being asked
questions by Mr. Cochran, do you know -- did you say that, sir, with
regard to the smell of alcohol on Nicole Brown Simpson's breath?

A. Apparently I did; I didn't smell any alcohol on her breath.

Q. By the way, as you sit here today, can you say whether or not Mr.
Simpson was intoxicated that night or whether he had alcohol on his
breath?

A. I wasn't close enough to him to smell him.

Q. Can you tell us whether he appeared to be intoxicated?

A. He didn't appear to be intoxicated.

Q. Okay.

Did you -- but again, you didn't get close enough to him to, for
instance, detect any alcohol on his breath?

A. We were about two feet a part.

Q. When you -- according to your testimony, when you were engaged with
him, apparently he was yelling; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. By the way, you were yelling back at him at times, weren't you,
sir?

A. No, I don't believe I did.

Q. Never raised your voice at all?

A. I may have raised my voice, but I didn't yell at him.

Q. Did you in any way, sir, threaten him in any way?

A. Never.

Q. And when Mr. Simpson came out the second time -- you following me
now? He had some clothes on?

A. That's right.

Q. You were with your -- you were with the sergeant -- is it Vittner
-- how do you pronounce his last name?

A. That's Vinger.

Q. At some point after Mr. Simpson came out with his clothes on, was
there -- it -- was a black and white summoned?

A. After he came out, initiated another conversation with me, then the
sergeant drove up.

MR. LEONARD: If we can have the chart.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) And the sergeant was there when Mr. Simpson got in
the car and left, correct?

A. Yes.

MR. P. BAKER: 1167.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 1167.)

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Now, I want you to --

MR. LEONARD: If the witness can approach the chart, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) If you can get down quickly, sir --

Well, I don't want you to fall down. If you could, just walk over to
the chart.

Just show us again -- I think you demonstrated this on direct
examination -- but show us again where you were when you first became
aware that Mr. Simpson was leaving the property.

A. I was over here, right about where the S is on the street. I was in
the roadway.

Q. Okay.

Where was the other black -- where was the black and white?

(Indicating to Ashford Street)

A. It had parked at an angle, just across the left front bumper of my
vehicle.

Q. Blocking your vehicle, more or less?

A. Just a little bit.

Q. And the first thing that came to you was, you actually heard the
car door open and close; is that correct?

A. I think I heard an engine.

Q. You heard the engine going.

By the way, it was pretty quiet out there that night?

A. Right.

Those hills echo noise very well.

Q. You had no trouble hearing that car start up, correct?

A. That's true.

Q. And at that point, you went over to -- right up to the gate at
Ashford, and you looked through, correct?

A. No, I walked out. I was in the street. I just walked over --little
bit over here, where I could get a better view through the gate.

Q. You could see right through the Ashford gate; that was just a grate
of some kind, right?

A. Right.

Q. You could see all the way over and out through the Rockingham gate
without any difficulty, couldn't you?

A. No.

Q. Is that how you saw the -- that's how you saw Mr. Simpson exit,
correct?

A. I saw him exit, but I couldn't -- I didn't have a clear field of
vision; there's trees in the way.

Q. Okay.

And so you say that Mr. Simpson was -- left the driveway at 15 miles
an hour, correct?

A. That's correct, long driveway.

Q. Fifteen miles an hour, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. At this time, you were over at the Ashford gate, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you saw -- saw the car go out. You saw it's taillights, right?

A. Right.

Q. And you say that you saw the car going down -- south on Rockingham,
and it was approaching speeds of 35 miles an hour; is that correct?

A. Right.

Q. Did you run all the way over to the intersection of Rockingham and
Ashford so that you could get a look at the car disappearing down
Rockingham?

A. No. I just saw the taillights as it was leaving.

Q. Obviously, the only way you could see them was through the yard and
across -- and through the gate; isn't that correct?

A. Right. Here I could see the taillights from underneath the trees.

Q. You could see the taillights going down Rockingham, couldn't you?

A. Just seen him going down that direction.

Q. You had no trouble seeing that from where you were, right?

A. Just the rear of the car and the taillights.

Q. You had no trouble testifying to this jury that you could tell he
was -- that the car was going 35 miles an hour, right?

A. Right. It looked like it was going 35 miles an hour.

Q. That was from your view of the receding taillights, all the way
down Rockingham. Correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. By the way, you could hear this vehicle accelerate, too?

You could hear that clearly, couldn't you?

A. I think you could hear -- it's not a real loud vehicle, but I think
I heard it, yes.

Q. Well, even if it was purring, you could hear it on that still
night, couldn't you, sir?

A. Right.

Q. No problem at all as it went down Rockingham into the distance,
right?

A. Right. Right.

Q. Now, what did you do, saddle up, jump in your cars, and head off to
try to catch Mr. Simpson?

Is that what you did at that point?

A. Saddle up?

Q. Well, you jumped in your --

(Laughter.)

Q. -- you jumped in your vehicle, right?

A. This isn't the wild west.

What we did was, the sergeant got in his vehicle and maneuvered out of
the way; and I got in my vehicle, made a U-turn, and we went down
Rockingham.

Q. In pursuit of Mr. Simpson, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. All right.

And no siren, no red lights, right?

A. Right.

Q. Now, you may take a seat again.

You testified that at that point, you gave up your pursuit, right, and
you were at the -- what, the coroner of Bundy and Wilshire at this
point?

A. Right.

Q. And you decided that you were going to take Mrs. Simpson to -- or
Nicole Brown Simpson to get some photographs taken at -- you wanted to
take her downtown, right?

A. Yes. I asked her if she would go.

Q. And she wanted to go home and see the kids. So instead, you took
her over to West L.A. police station?

A. I asked her if she would do that, and she agreed.

Q. Okay.

And you knew that there was photographic equipment there that you
could take some -- take these photographs, right?

That's why you took her there?

A. Well, I was hoping there would be photographic equipment.

Q. And in fact, there was a Polaroid camera?

A. Yes.

Q. And your job at this point was to make sure that you would fairly
and accurately and as best you could, try to depict the injuries.
That's what you were most concerned with. In fact, that was the only
reason you took her to the police station, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you've used a Polaroid camera before, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That's not an unusual investigative tool, is it, sir?

A. No.

Q. And so you took -- are you the one -- are you the one who who took
the photographs?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the beautiful thing about a Polaroid camera, or one of the
nice things, you take a picture and you get an immediate result; you
don't like it, you can take some more pictures, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

So you took these three photographs and you looked at them and you
took no more photographs that night, correct?

A. That's partially correct.

Q. How many more photographs did you take, sir?

A. I took three photographs.

Q. So you took three.

And you had an opportunity to look at those photographs, right?

They developed before your very eyes, didn't they?

A. No.

Q. They didn't?

A. The one photograph was developing before Nicole Simpson's very
eyes, sitting on the desktop of the station while I was taking the
third picture.

Q. But let me put it to you this way: By the time you left with Nicole
to take her home, you had had an opportunity to review those
photographs to see whether or not you needed to take additional
photographs, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you chose not to, correct?

A. Correct.

No.

Q. You chose not to take additional photographs?

Is that not sure?

MR. KELLY: I'd object. He's in the middle of answering the prior
question when Mr. Leonard interjected another one.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Answer the first question.

MR. LEONARD: It was the same question, Your Honor. I'll withdraw it.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. LEONARD: It makes it easier.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you, before you left the police station with
Nicole Brown Simpson to take her home, you took no more photographs of
her, did you?

A. That is correct

Q. Now, when you were at -- strike that.

If you respond to a scene like this and you believe there are serious
injuries to a victim, do you not have the obligation to try to get the
victim medical care of some kind?

Either to take the victim, yourself, or to call an EMT, but to get the
victim some medical attention?

That's your obligation as a reporting officer -- or a responding
officer, is it not, sir?

MR. KELLY: Object to this as to form. It's also argumentative and
speculative, not relevant to this particular incident what he might
generally do.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I'm obligated to do what the victim wants.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) No matter what the state of the medical condition
of the victim; is that your testimony, sir?

A. If the victim refuses medical treatment, I'm obligated to do what
the victim wants.

Q. And by the way, when you were at Bundy and Wilshire, you were
within what, five or ten minutes of a couple of different hospitals;
isn't that right?

A. That's correct.

We didn't want to go to those hospitals.

Q. Instead, you went to the police station to take some photographs,
correct?

A. I asked her if she wanted to go to the hospital.

She said no.

Q. Okay.

Instead, sir, you went to the police station to have some photographs
taken; is that right?

A. I asked her if she wanted to go to the hospital?

She refused.

I then asked her if she wanted to go to the police station to take
pictures.

She agreed.

I did what the victim agreed to do.

Q. It was your suggestion to go to the police station; it wasn't
Nicole Brown Simpson's?

A. That's correct.

MR. LEONARD: Thank you. No further questions.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Detective, Mr. Leonard asked you if you took any photos after you
took those three at West LA station. You indicated that you did not;
is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Is there a particular reason you did not?

A. Yes. Nicole Simpson insisted that she wanted to go home immediately
to her kids, so I did what my victim wanted to do.

Q. And Mr. Leonard also asked you about a supplemental report that you
had made later on, and you indicated you did that at the request of
the city's attorney; is that correct?

A. That is correct.

Q. And did you prepare that report yourself when the city's attorney
asked for it?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that done in the normal course of your duties?

A. Yes.

Q. And was that report a report that was kept by the LAPD as a
business record, kept in the normal course of business?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) That report you prepared, it was a follow-up report?

A. Yes, supplemental follow-up report to the primary incident.

Q. Is that a report that's kept in the normal course of your duties?

A. Yes.

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) I'm sorry.

Is that a report that's maintained in the regular course of business
by the police department?

A. Yes.

Q. I'm going to ask you to just --

MR. KELLY: This would be 2192, Your Honor?

THE CLERK: Yes.

(The instrument herein referred to as Five-page supplemental report
written by Detective Edwards was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2192.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) I ask you if you recognized that when I just showed
it to you.

A. This a five-page handwritten report in my handwriting, with my name
on the bottom. This is the one I prepared supplemental to the primary
report.

Q. Okay.

By the way, in looking, is there any reference made to Nicole's
statement about, you've been out here eight times before?

MR. LEONARD: Objection. Leading, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

MR. KELLY: Okay.

Your honor, at this time I ask this be moved into evidence, 2192.

MR. LEONARD: Same Objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2192 for
identification was received in evidence.)

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. Just so we get the sequence clear here, that report that Mr. Kelly
was just talking about, that was written what, six weeks after the
incident; is that right?

A. It was a month and a half; possibly about six weeks.

Q. And you agreed earlier that your memory was much fresher about
these events the same day, correct, than it was six weeks later?

A. No. I think I remembered quite a lot. It was in that six-week
period.

Q. On direct examination, you testified, if I'm not mistaken -- you
said that Nicole Brown Simpson came out and stated that she --

MR. KELLY: Objection. This is improper recross. It's going back to my
direct.

MR. LEONARD: If we can approach, I can demonstrate the relevance at
this point. It's two questions. It has to do with this report.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You testified that Nicole Brown Simpson had told
you when she came out of -- when you saw her that morning, that she
had been punched, correct? That she had been beaten, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That she had been slapped, right?

A. Right.

Q. That she had been knocked down, right?

A. I don' think I used those words, "knocked down."

Q. That she had been --

A. I think it was kicked.

Q. And her hair had been pulled?

A. And her hair was pulled, yes.

Q. And that she had been thrown out of the house, right?

A. I don't remember seeing that word in there.

Q. Okay.

But you do remember -- and this is something that's very clear in your
mind -- that she said that she had been -- her hair had been pulled,
right?

A. Right.

Q. And that she had been knocked down, correct, in addition to being
slapped and kicked?

A I don't think I put the words "knocked down," if I'm not mistaken.

Q. No. I'm asking you what you testified to today, sir, not what was
in any report.

If you don't remember, you don't remember.

A. I remember, but I don't think she said she was knocked down.

Q. My question is what you testified today on the direct examination,
sir.

If you don't remember, that's fine.

MR. KELLY: Objection as to the form of the question. It's
argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You don't remember?

A. You know, the way you've gotten the question a little mixed up, I
quite don't understand what it is you want.

Q. I'll withdraw the question.

When you filled out this supplemental report, I think you indicated
that you wanted to include -- you wanted to include as much detail as
possible, right?

A. The City Attorney asked me to include as much detail as possible.

Q. You wanted to include detail that you either forgot or left out
from the earlier report, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. All right.

Do you recall putting in the supplemental report that when she came
out, you asked her what happened, and she said that O.J. had slapped
her and kicked her, period?

Do you remember that do?

You want to look at the report?

A. That's initially what she told me.

Then she expanded on that in the car when we handed her the report.

Q. When you testified here today, sir, you said that when she first
came out, she described things beyond slapping and kicking, didn't
you, when she first came out, when you first saw her?

Do you remember testifying to that?

A. Yes, and then just --

Q. Do you want to change your testimony now?

A. No, I don't want to change my testimony; thank you.

Q. Which is it?

A. There were --they were almost the same time; they were seconds
apart. And that's exactly what she said.

Q. Is that included in your report, here, sir, the supplemental
report?

A. What's included?

Q. That -- anything beyond slapping and kicking, is that in the
supplemental report?

A. That's in the primary report, the slapping, kicking, hair pulling,
in the primary reports.

Q. Is it in the supplemental report where you were going to give as
much detail as possible, sir?

A. No, because it was already mentioned in the primary report.

MR. LEONARD: Thank you.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: You're excused.

Ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess)

(Jurors resume their respective seats)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. All right. Do you recall putting in the supplemental report that
when she came out, you asked her what happened and she said that O.J.
had slapped her and kicked her, period. Do you remember that? Do you
want to look at the report?

A. That's initially what she told me. Then she expanded on that in the
car when we handed her the report.

Q. When you testified here today, sir, you said that when she first
came out she described things beyond slapping and kicking, didn't you,
when she first came out, when you first saw her? Do you remember
testifying to that?

A. Yes, and then just --

Q. Do you want to change your testimony now?

A. No I don't want to change my testimony, thank you.

Q. Which is it?

A. They were almost the same time, they were seconds apart, and that's
exactly what she said.

Q. Is that included in your report here, sir, the supplemental report?

A. What's included?

Q. That -- anything beyond slapping and kicking, is that in the
supplemental report?

A. That's in the primary report, the slapping, kicking, hair pulling,
in the primary report.

Q. Is it in the supplemental report where you were going to give as
much detail as possible, sir?

A. No, because it was already mentioned in the primary report.

Q. Thank you.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: You're excused.

10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Okay, you may call your next witness.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, before we do, by stipulation, I'd like to move
Exhibit 2193 into evidence.

THE CLERK: What was -- what is 2193.

MR. KELLY: Which is 10 pages of medical records of January 1, 1979
regarding treatment of Nicole Brown Simpson at Saint John's Hospital.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2193.)

MR. KELLY: Sharyn Gilbert.

SHARYN GILBERT, called as a witness on behalf of the Plaintiffs, was
duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: And if you would please state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: My name is Sharyn, S-h-a-r-y-n, last name Gilbert,
G-i-l-b-e-r-t.

DIRECT-EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Good afternoon, Ms. Gilbert.

A. Good afternoon.

Q. Are you currently employed?

A. Yes, I am.

Q. And by whom?

A. City of Los Angeles, the police department.

Q. And in what capacity does the police department employ you?

A. I'm employed as a police service representative which is a 911
dispatcher.

Q. And for how many years have you been doing that?

A. Ten years.

Q. Okay. And basically what are your duties and responsibilities as a
911 dispatcher?

A. To take calls from 911 and non-emergency calls, to dispatch calls
to police officers and handle their service requests.

Q. And were you acting in this capacity for the police department on
New Year's Eve, 1988, going into the morning of New Year's Day, 1989?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And do you recall what your tour of duty was those days?

A. That night I was working as a primary dispatcher which -- taking
calls on 911 only.

Q. Okay. And could you tell me where you were physically working in
the building at that point when you were working as a primary
dispatcher?

A. I was working on console 54. Console -- our consoles have numbers,
and primary console 54.

Q. Okay. Would it be fair to say there are a number of consoles next
to each other --

A. Yes, there are.

Q. -- lined up in the office?

When you talk about a console, are there different pieces of equipment
that go along with the console when you're sitting at it?

A. Yes, it is. It's our Positron phone system which is to the left and
that's where our calls come in. It has a dial phone, dial pad. Then we
have two screens, a working screen and a status screen. And to my
right is what we call Positron, where we can automatically transfer to
the fire department and the highway patrol.

Q. Okay. Do you have a keyboard also?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. And what is that used for?

A. That's to create incidents for calls that we have to dispatch on
it.

Q. And that shows up on your screen as you create it?

A. Yes, it does.

Q. And this is dispatched if necessary also?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And you also have head phones that you use?

A. Yes, I have a personalized head set.

Q. Okay. And how are you plugged into your console?

A. There's plugs on either side of my console and my individual head
set plugs right in to that and I log on with my assigned operator
number onto the phone system.

Q. Okay. What happens when a 911 call comes into you at your console?

A. It automatically, the call, when I say "drops in," my line is
always open to receive the next available call, and when I get a call
on the 911 console I get an address and phone number on my status
screen, which is the screen to my left, and also on my phone pad to my
left.

Q. Okay. And you indicated also that you use your keyboard to create
incident records?

A. Yes, I do, off of that information.

Q. And how do you create an incident report via the phone line, what
is that based upon?

A. It's based upon the address and phone number that -- that I
automatically receive and I can -- it's computerized. It will -- our
cache system will automatically pick it up and type it into my
incident. All I have to do is type an asterisk, phone number and
address. The computer will automatically transfer that information to
my working screen to start an incident.

Q. Is that just based on your perceptions and what you hear coming in
on that 911 call?

A. Yes, well, we have policy and procedure that we follow on how to
handle calls that we receive on 911.

Q. Okay. And I draw your attention to early morning January 1, 1989.
Now, you were working the, I think you indicated console 54, at that
time?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you recall receiving a 911 call at approximately 3:58 a.m.?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And did your computer screen and console that you just described to
us indicate where that call came from?

A. Yes, it automatically lit up from 360 North Rockingham and the
phone number to that residence.

Q. Okay. And can you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what,
if anything, you first heard when that call came in?

A. When the call first dropped in, I didn't hear anything. It was
considered to me an open line.

Q. Okay. And did you take any action at this point when it was just an
open line and you heard nothing?

A. Yes, I made it an "unknown trouble." The policy and procedure for
the police department, when somebody dials 911, you have to send on
it. I made the incident type 900, which is "unknown trouble."

Q. Okay. And when you received -- after it was initially unknown
trouble, did you continue listening to that line?

A. Yes, I left the line open, and during that -- that few seconds, it
seemed like just a few seconds to me, might be a minute to you, but
it's just a few seconds, I heard what I indicated or detected as a
slap and I heard a woman screaming.

Q. Okay. And when you say you heard what sounded like a slap, would
you be able to describe that to me?

A. It was like (indicating hitting hands.)

Q. Just like flesh on flesh?

A. Yes.

Q. And once you heard that woman screaming and flesh on flesh, what,
if any, further action did you take at that point?

MR. LEONARD: I object. That misstates what she said. I thought she
heard flesh on flesh and a woman screaming. I want to make sure the
record is clear.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Okay. Could you repeat the sequence on which you
heard things on this 911 call.

MR. LEONARD: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) What, if any, action did you take next after hearing
these things you heard over the 911 call?

A. At that time I already had my incident created to dispatch on it
and I had selected the bureau radio channels, I had a radio panel
also, I had already selected the bureau radio panels to dispatch the
"unknown trouble" when I heard the hit and the female screaming. Then
I went back immediately and changed my incident type from 900, which
is "unknown trouble," to a 930W, which is a "screaming woman." And I
also indicated in my comments -- I had to justify why I changed the
incident typing. The comments I put in there, female being beaten at
location, that it was heard over the phone, so the officer would know
what he was responding to.

Q. And is this something you actually typed and memorialized on your
computer?

A. Yes, I did. It's indicated in my incident.

Q. Okay.

MR. KELLY: I'd ask this to be marked, I believe it's Exhibit 2.

(The instrument herein described as a 911 operator incident report
dated January 1, 1989 was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2.)

MR. KELLY: If we could put that up on the Elmo, please. It's also very
fine print there.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, looking at that, you indicated when you first
had unknown trouble, there was some sort of call priority assigned to
that, was there not?

A. Yes. That's -- to your right, where you see C/P, that stands for
code and priority.

MR. KELLY: Can you focus on that, upper right-hand corner.

(Elmo is focused in.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Is that the right section, right where we're in
right now?

A. Yes, it would be to your right where you see RD813. That tells me
the car call is from West LA, and that's a reporting district, and
then CP is code and priority. That's -- and for this type of incident
type, that's the proper code and priority for that type of call, which
requires immediate police response.

Q. Was that the priority assigned to it when you had the unknown
trouble on the line?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. Initially?

A. Yes, unknown trouble is the same.

Q. Okay. And was that changed at all after you heard -- when you
indicated that you had heard --

A. No.

Q. Okay. Was there any additional transmitting done as a result of
that?

A. From the unknown trouble?

Q. Yeah.

A. No, because I did not have a chance to dispatch it as an "unknown
trouble" because before I could dispatch it I heard the hit and I
heard the female screaming so I immediately went back and updated it
and dispatched it according to the "screaming woman."

If you see in the -- my example that I have here, if you can raise it
up to that, at the bottom incident where my comments say "female being
beaten at the location, could be heard over the phone," you'll see it
says updated, and it gives you another incident number, my serial
number on over, so it shows I updated incident 1387.

Q. Okay.

A. Which is the "screaming woman" to add the comments.

Q. Was that call tape recorded?

A. Yes, they all are.

Q. Okay. And they are done in the normal course --

A. Yes.

Q. -- of the LAPD business and the 911 calls?

Have you had occasion since then to listen to this particular call
that you monitored?

A. Yes, I did awhile ago.

Q. Okay. And in listening to it, did it fairly accurately represent
what you had heard that morning on the call on 911?

A. You couldn't hear the hit, but that's because my head set has an
open mike so that it's going to pick up the noise around me, but I
have a unique ear plug that the call is directly detected to me. So
you wouldn't hear what I hear, you're only hearing what my mike is
picking up. That's the noise around me.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, I'm going to object and move to strike as
nonresponsive to that question.

THE COURT: It may remain.

MR. KELLY: Can we put on No. 1 at this point? This is Exhibit 1.

(The instrument described herein as a 1/1/89 911 Tape was marked for
identification as Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 1.)

THE COURT REPORTER: (Reporter indicates to her hands)

THE COURT: (Nods negatively.)

(Tape is played but not reported.)

(Tape ends playing.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Ms. Gilbert, at the beginning of that tape, first of
all, it sounded like a female screaming. Sound like a voice you heard
over your 911 line?

A. Yes.

MR. LEONARD: Objection, leading, tape speaks for itself.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. LEONARD: I move to strike his characterization.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Then there was a reference to male black with a
description of height, weight and talk of revolver. Was that all
related to the call you received?

A. No, it wasn't.

Q. Could you explain why that appears on that tape?

A. Because I had already selected frequency to broadcast my call. I
had to wait for my turn to get the air, so someone else was
broadcasting something to another division and you heard it.

Q. And then what happened after that other broadcast went out through
the other division?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, vague.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Then I got my turn to get the air.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) And were you able to speak to anybody on the other
end of that line when you received that 911 call?

A. No, I wasn't.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: Cross-examine.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. There was also a statement, it sounds like, by another dispatcher,
someone got beat up over there. Did you hear that? That has nothing to
do with this?

A. No, it does not.

Q. Okay. I wanted to make sure.

MR. LEONARD: I don't have any more questions. Thanks a lot, I
appreciate it.

THE COURT: Thank you. You're excused.

MR. KELLY: Mark Day.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, may we approach? (A bench conference was held,
with reporter.)

MR. BAKER: We object to any evidence relative to the 1985/84 incidents
as being remote and not involving domestic violence and not likely to
lead to any probative evidence, and under 352 the prejudicial value
outweighs any probative value.

This is where Mr. Simpson allegedly hit the windshield with a baseball
bat of a car owned by him. There was no report made of it until 1989.
The incident -- although Fuhrman testified in the criminal trial that
the incident couldn't have occurred in '85. And so this was 10 years
before any incident and before these murders took place and we think
it's remote in time, number one, and time consuming, prejudicial
effect outweighs any probative value.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, this is within ten years of the murders
themselves. We believe it demonstrates his propensity and temperament
to commit these acts. It demonstrates his rage.

This is one incident. Probably a five-minute witness, Your Honor, in
terms of his testimony, so there's no --

MR. KELLY: One other point. Sorry to double team here. I understand
your blanket ruling about statements of Nicole Brown Simpson, but this
witness -- there's no telling how long after the incident he shows up,
and this is a Westec officer at that time. This is simply the report
from -- of Nicole, of what she says happened that led to this.

MR. BAKER: This witness, he has no percipient knowledge of what
actually occurred, other than he says he saw a windshield broken which
is true, but that's it.

I mean, otherwise it's a report from Nicole sometime later that same
day. You know, he's going to say that she was crying, but crying
doesn't make it an exited utterance as far as I know.

MR. KELLY: He can testify as to her state of mind, not only that she
was crying, that she was upset, she seemed frightened, that it had
just happened at the time, it was even before the police officers
arrived at the scene he summoned as part of his private security for
--

MR. BAKER: Keep you voice down.

MR. KELLY: Sorry. Part of the private security shows up there even
before the uniformed patrol officers, which -- he will testify to her
demeanor, her appearance, the statements she made, what his
observations were, and that's it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Under People versus Zack, this is relevant to show the
nature of the relationship between the parties.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, they're showing one incident in 1984, and this
is not to show the relationship of the parties, and it's so remote in
time that it should be excluded, much less the fact that it isn't an
excited utterance, I'll submit.

THE COURT: Okay. Overruled.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MARK DAY, called as a witness on behalf of the Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Please state and spell both your first and your last names
for the record.

THE WITNESS: Mark Day, M-a-r-k D-a-y.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Sir, you're currently employed?

A. I'm currently employed with the Police Department as a sergeant
assigned to Newton Division.

Q. Okay. And how long have you been with the LAPD?

A. Nine years.

Q. And prior to joining the LAPD, was there a period between 1983 and
1985 you were employed elsewhere?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Who were you employed by?

A. Westec Security.

Q. And what is Westec Security?

A. It is a private residential security firm.

Q. Okay. What were your duties with Westec when you were with them?

A. I worked as a patrol or alarm response officer and as a sergeant
for awhile.

Q. And during the course of your duties, did you become familiar with
the residence of 360 North Rockingham?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Okay. And did you have occasion to go there in response to a
disturbance at any point in 1984, '85?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Okay. And could you tell me, first of all, what happened when you
responded there at that time?

A. Upon my arrival I came on the property from the north gate and
walked -- was walking towards the front door and I was the first
person on the scene, and I was met by Nicole Simpson as she came
running across the front yard.

(Counsel displayed exhibit entitled "360 North Rockingham Avenue.")

Q. Can you explain Nicole Simpson's appearance to me, and demeanor as
she ran across the front yard?

A. She was hysterical, she was crying, very upset.

Q. And what, if anything, did she say to you at that time?

MR. LEONARD: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. She -- specifically I can't give you a quote, but it was, you know,
that she was very upset and that he had lost his temper and that she
was afraid.

Q. Who had lost their temper?

A. Well, she didn't state it, but I later found out it was Mr.
Simpson.

Q. Okay. And what, if anything, did you observe after Nicole Brown
Simpson ran up to you and you had this discussion with her?

A. I had her step behind me -- I had another Westec officer that
arrived on the scene, and what I observed was there was a Mercedes,
like a 350, 450SL, little 2-door coupe that was parked in the
driveway, in front of the front door -- that there were several dents
in the top hood of the car, the glass was shattered, and then the
front hood of the car had several dents in it as well.

Q. When you say the glass was shattered, what glass in the car was
shattered?

A. This would be the front windshield.

Q. Was that the entire windshield?

A. It was mostly on the driver side.

Q. And what, if anything else, did you observe in the immediate
vicinity of the car?

A. On the ground I observed a baseball bat.

Q. And what, if anything, happened after that?

A. A moment or two later Mr. Simpson came out the front door and I
contacted him and he basically said -- he was very quiet, very -- I
want to say demure, and he said that he lost his temper.

Q. Okay. And how long did you remain at that scene after that?

A. Possibly five minutes, approximately, or so. LAPD officers arrived
on the scene. And basically I was just keeping the peace until they
arrived, and then I turned it over to the police officers.

Q. Now, going back, you indicated when you first came up the driveway
that someone you learned to be Nicole Brown Simpson approached you; is
that correct?

A. That's correct.

MR. KELLY: Can you put up 2194.

Q. I'd ask you to take a look at that, the photograph on the Elmo, and
ask you if you recognize that person?

A. Yes, that's Mrs. Nicole Brown Simpson.

Q. Is that the person that met you when you first arrived at this
time?

A. Yes, it was.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
2194.)

MR. LEONARD: Briefly.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. LEONARD:

Q. Good afternoon.

A. Good afternoon.

Q. Sergeant --

A. Yes?

Q. You never filled out -- strike that.

You filled out a report for the Los Angeles Police Department about
this incident approximately 10 years later, correct, on November 8,
1994; is that right?

A. Yes, I did fill out a report.

Q. You were interviewed by Detective Vannatter; is that correct?

A. Regarding what?

Q. This incident, the incident you just testified about.

A. Right. I spoke to Chris Darden about it.

Q. Do you recall being interviewed by Detective Vannatter?

A. Briefly.

Q. Do you recall sending a report to him?

A. Yes.

Q. And in the report, were you trying to give an accurate and full
description of what you observed 10 years earlier?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay. Did you leave out anything on purpose in that report that you
can think of now?

A. I gave the report basically just documenting that I was there at
that time.

Q. So the purpose of the report to Vannatter was just to document that
you were there?

A. That I had been there.

Q. But you weren't going to provide any detail in the report; is that
your testimony?

A. Not a matter of not providing detail. I did provide some detail to
the incident.

Q. You were trying to give Detective Vannatter and the prosecutor
before the criminal case a full and complete picture of what you had
observed 10 years before, correct?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay. And that was the purpose of the report to Vannatter, correct?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay.

Tell us, how did you -- how did -- you volunteered your -- the
information you had at some point, correct, the information you had
about this incident that occurred 10 years --

A. Yes.

Q. -- ago?

And you volunteered that after you heard some scuttlebutt around the
West Los Angeles Police Department, correct?

A. No, sir.

Q. Did you hear some information about Mark Fuhrman having been out at
Rockingham in 1985? Did you hear any information about that, sir?

A. In the preliminary hearing, sir, yes.

Q. Okay. And you also heard information around the police, you were
working narcotics at that time?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And you heard some information to the effect that Mark Fuhrman
wasn't believed about that?

MR. KELLY: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. LEONARD: Goes to his state of mind, his bias, and why he's here
today.

MR. KELLY: Same objection.

THE COURT: Sustained. You may inquire as to his bias.

MR. LEONARD: I'm trying to.

THE COURT: You're not going to do it by asking him about conversations
he had with someone else.

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, it goes to his state of mind. With all due
respect --

THE COURT: Not unless you're going to produce the somebody else.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you have a conversation with Mark Fuhrman
about this incident?

MR. KELLY: Objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Now, you testified hear today that when you
responded to the residence, that Nicole Simpson came running out to
you and she was upset, she was afraid, right, she said she was afraid;
is that right?

A. Yes, she did.

Q. And so you didn't go to the front door -- she didn't meet you at
the front door, correct?

A. No, sir.

Q. Okay. And if that was in your report of November 8, 1994, that
would be incorrect, right, sir, that she met you at the front door?

A. In front of the front door?

Q. Yeah. She met you at the front door, that's incorrect?

A. No. She came out from the front door and met me just north of the
front door, it's in the yard just north of the front door.

Q. Okay. So if the report says I was met at the front door by Nicole,
that's not correct, is it, sir?

A. No, sir, it was not at the front door.

Q. Okay.

And also, if the report leaves out the fact that she came running over
to you, that also makes it an inaccurate report, correct, sir?

MR. KELLY: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Did -- I'm sorry, sir, could you repeat it.

Q. If the report does not say that Nicole Brown Simpson came running
over to you as you testified here today, that makes this report
inaccurate also, correct?

A. I wouldn't say it made it inaccurate, I'd say it's not as specific.

Q. Should have been in the report, right? That was an important fact
wasn't it?

MR. KELLY: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Should that fact have been in the report?

MR. KELLY: Same objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. The --

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Can you answer it yes or no?

MR. KELLY: Objection. I believe he was getting ready to answer the
question. He was interrupted by Mr. Leonard.

THE COURT: He may answer the question.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Can I get a yes or no. Should that have been in
the report?

THE COURT: You may answer yes or no.

A. I don't know if that's where it belongs, sir, at that point.

Q. At that point, as of the 8 of -- of November of 1994, how long had
you been a police officer, sir?

A. 7 years.

Q. And did you learn about reports and how important they are in the
Academy?

MR. KELLY: Objection, irrelevant.

MR. LEONARD: Did you, sir?

THE COURT: Overruled?

A. Yes, sir, I did.

Q. Did you learn about reports when you were a Westec security officer
and sergeant?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Did you learn that it was important to document as fairly and as
accurately and as completely as you could the events that you observed
in a particular incident? Did you learn that, sir?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay. So when you just said you don't know whether it should have
been in the report, you want to change that testimony now, sir?

A. The basis -- the basis for the report, sir, was to document the
incident, and it was not -- and if my specificity of the report was
lacking, it was not out of an intentional deletion of information that
was important.

Q. Where have you ever stated on the record, on paper, that Nicole
Simpson came running out to you, sir? Tell me where before today
sitting on the stand?

A. That possibly would have been on the report I wrote for Westec many
years ago.

Q. You're just guessing about that, aren't you?

A. I'm saying with that specificity because I wrote it immediately
after the incident, sir.

Q. You're guessing that, aren't you, sir?

A. No, I'm not.

Q. You said possibly?

A. You're saying have I written that before this time?

Q. You were interviewed by Senior Investigator Thompson from the
District Attorney's office about this incident on January 1, 1995,
correct? Do you remember that?

A. I don't recall, sir.

Q. Do you remember being interviewed by someone other than Vannatter?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. After the Vannatter interview?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay. Do you recall whether in that interview, you told Senior
Investigator Thompson that Nicole Simpson came running out to you? Do
you remember that, sir?

A. I don't recall what I -- what was stated in that interview.

Q. Would you like to look at it?

A. I'd love to.

MR. LEONARD: May I approach?

THE COURT: You may.

(Witness reviews document.)

Q. And look at this one while you're at it.

A. Thank you

(Witness reviews documents)

(Pause)

Q. Have you had a chance to review those two reports?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. When was the last time you reviewed those reports?

A. The one that I wrote I reviewed probably in January of '95. I'm
going to guess. I don't know exactly, sir, when I was at Mr. Darden's
office.

Q. And when you say the one that you wrote, are you referring to the
Vannatter report?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. That's the report you wrote for Vannatter?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Did you not bother to review those before you came and testified
here today, sir?

A. No, sir.

Q. Didn't think that was necessary, did you?

A. I didn't have them available, sir.

Q. You didn't?

A. No, sir.

Q. Did you ask the plaintiffs' attorneys for it?

A. Not specifically. I wasn't -- I didn't remember the Thompson
report, sir.

Q. Okay. Do you agree with me that nowhere in either of those reports
do you indicate that Nicole Brown Simpson came running out to you?

MR. KELLY: Well, I'd object to any answer being elicited regarding
someone else's report, Your Honor. I don't mind him answering about
his own reports, but he has no control over what someone else might
report.

MR. KELLY: I'll lay a foundation.

THE COURT: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) With regard to the Vannatter report, the report
that you prepared for Vannatter, there's nowhere indicated in that
report that Nicole Brown Simpson came running out to you; isn't that
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. In fact, it says she met you at the door. Doesn't it say that, sir?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And with regard to the other report, that's a report of an
interview that you gave to a senior investigator for the District
Attorney's office, isn't that right, in January 1 of 1995 in
preparation for your testimony at the trial, your potential testimony
at the trial, correct?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay. And you've seen that report before, right?

A. Once.

Q. And did you correct anything in that report, sir, when you saw it?

MR. KELLY: Objection as to someone else's report, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you review that report at some point, the
report of January 1, 1995?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And you reviewed it to make sure that it was accurate, correct,
because it was -- it was purporting to -- to report what you said to
the investigator, correct?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And you never corrected it once, did you, sir?

A. I spoke with Mr. Darden about the incident. That's the best I can
say.

Q. Did you correct anything that was indicated in the report that was
reported by you to Senior Investigator Thompson, yes or no, sir?

A. No, sir.

Q. Okay. There's nothing in that report that indicates that Nicole
Brown Simpson came running out to you as you testified on direct
examination, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Were you trying to embellish the story a little bit before this
jury, sir?

A. No.

Q. Is that what you were trying to do?

A. No, sir.

Q. Didn't bother to look at reports before you came here and testified
in front of this jury?

MR. KELLY: Objection, asked a answered.

MR. LEONARD: Withdrawn.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) You kind of like a pinch-hitter today; isn't that
right?

MR. KELLY: Objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. LEONARD) Did you testify at the criminal trial?

A. No, sir.

Q. Mark Fuhrman testified at the criminal trial with regard to this
matter?

MR. PETROCELLI: You know, Your Honor --

THE COURT: Sustained. Jury to disregard.

MR. LEONARD: Nothing further.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's really out of --

MR. LEONARD: Withdrawn.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. (MR. KELLY) Sergeant, today you indicated -- Mr. Leonard was asking
you some questions about reporting to anyone about Nicole coming out
crying from the front door?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you have a conversation with Chris Darden regarding that?

A. Yes, I did.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

MR. LEONARD: I'm finished with this witness.

THE COURT: Thank you, you're excused.

THE WITNESS: Thank you.

THE COURT: Next.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, before the next witness, I'd like to move
Exhibits 1 and 2 which were put up with the prior witness, Sharon
Gilbert, and 2194 that was put in through this witness.

THE COURT: Okay, received.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 1)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2194)

MR. KELLY: Sergeant Rob Lerner. ROBERT LERNER, was called as a witness
on behalf of the Plaintiffs, was duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: And if you please, state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: Yes. It's R-o-b-e-r-t L-e-r-n-e-r.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Good afternoon, Sergeant.

A. Good afternoon.

Q. You're obviously currently employed as a sergeant by the Police
Department?

A. Yes, sir, that's correct.

Q. Okay. And how long have you been employed by the LAPD?

A. Little over 22 years.

Q. And I want to draw your attention to October 25, 1993. Were you on
duty that day?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And do you recall what your tour of duty was?

A. I was working a patrol assignment in West Los Angeles division on
the mid p.m. watch.

Q. And what are the hours of the mid p.m watch?

A. Starts at 6 in the evening, ends at 2:45 in the morning.

Q. Do you recall receiving a radio communication in your car at
approximately 10 p.m.?

A. Yes.

Q. And do you recall what the substance of that call was?

A. It was a domestic violence dispute call. I believe the address was
on Gretna Green.

Q. Do you recall whether there was any call priority on that call?

A. It was coded as a code 2 high call meaning an urgent call just
under a code 3 call which involves red lights and siren.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, at this time I'd like to play a tape which
would be Exhibit 16. Admissibility has already been stipulated to.

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to that, Your Honor. There's no
foundation through this witness.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's stipulated to --

MR. BAKER: There's no foundation.

MR. PETROCELLI: -- as to admissibility and foundation.

MR. BAKER: Through this witness.

THE COURT: Show me the stipulation.

MR. KELLY: Can we play --

THE COURT: I want to see the stipulation, counsel.

MR. KELLY: Okay.

(Mr. Petrocelli and Mr. Baker approach bench.)

(A bench conference was held which was not reported.)

THE COURT: Witness, would you step outside.

THE WITNESS: Yes, sir.

(Witness exits courtroom.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. KELLY: Can we play it, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time the parties have
stipulated to come into evidence, that's why we're listening to it
without anybody testifying as to how it was made, et cetera.

Does everybody understand that?

JURORS: Nod affirmative.

THE COURT: Go ahead.

(Tape is played)

(Tape concludes playing.)

THE COURT: Bring your witness in.

(Witness resumes witness stand)

THE CLERK: You are still under oath. Please state your name.

THE WITNESS: Robert Lerner.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Sergeant, going back to approximately 10 p.m. on
October 25, 1993, did there come -- at about that time did you arrive
at 325 Gretna Green Way?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And what, if anything, did you observe out front at that residence
when you arrived there at that time?

A. We observed a vehicle that was described in the comments reports as
a white Bronco.

Q. And where did you see that in relationship to the house itself?

A. The Bronco was parked in the street facing southbound. It was -- it
was in front of the house, about four to six feet from the curb.

Q. And did you make any other observations about the car at that time?

A. Yes.

Q. What was that?

A. The headlights were on, the ignition was off.

Q. Okay. Was there anybody in there at this time?

A. Nobody in the vehicle, no.

MR. KELLY: If I could see 2195.

(The instrument herein described as photo depicting 325 South Gretna
Green with two vehicles parked at curb side was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2195)

Q. I'm going ask you to look at that residence and see if you
recognize it?

A. Yes. That's the house at 325 South Gretna Green.

Q. Okay. And that's where you indicated the white Bronco was parked
out front away from the curb?

A. Yes. It was over here in the south part of the house, south side of
the residence.

Q. There's a driveway from that house, isn't there?

A. Yes.

MR. KELLY: Okay. You can take it off.

Q. Now, what, if anything, did you observe next after seeing the white
Bronco parked out front in the street?

A. We approached the front door of the residence and were met by the
tenant.

Q. And who was the tenant?

A. Nicole Brown Simpson.

Q. Okay. And did you step into the house or did she come outside at
this time?

A. She came out front.

Q. And could you describe her appearance and demeanor at the time you
first saw her?

A. Well, she was pretty upset, she was visibly shaking, and she was --
she had been very frightened earlier.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. Did she appeared frighten when you saw her?

A. She told me -- she said she was scared.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike as hearsay.

THE COURT: State of mind, overruled.

Q. (MR. KELLY) I'm sorry, she was --

A. She told me she was scared.

MR. KELLY: Can you flip on Exhibit 21, please.

(Exhibit 21 displayed.)

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 21)

Q. Do you recognize that photo?

A. Yes. That was the person to whom we responded, the call, Nicole
Brown Simpson.

Q. And you determined that she was the one who had made those phone
calls?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And did you also determine whether the individual was -- the
subject of those phone calls was still there?

A. Yes. She told us he was still there.

Q. And what, if anything, did you do next after you met Nicole?

A. We tried to establish the location of the suspect.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, can we take that off the screen? He's
identified this.

THE COURT: You may.

(Exhibit 21 removed.)

A. We established the current location of the suspect, and if he was
armed, if there were any additional suspects, and entered the house.

Q. And what did you do upon entering the house?

A. We walked through the house where she directed us to the suspect's
location, where he was in the rear house.

Q. Did you make any observations regarding the interior of the house
as you went through it?

A. Yes. Upon exiting from the main house into the backyard area there
was a double French doors and I made an observation with regard to
those doors.

Q. What was that observation?

A. The door was broken, there was a wood chip that was -- or wood
splinter that had been broken off from the door, and the door had been
split all the way up to the top of the door.

Q. And after looking at the rear French doors, where, if anywhere, did
you go next?

A. We responded to the rear guest house.

Q. Was that separate from the main house?

A. Yes.

Q. And how far was it from the main house back to the guest house?

A. Oh, 40 feet.

Q. And who, if anybody, was in the guest house when you arrived there?

A. Two people were present in the guest house; one was Mr. Simpson --
O.J. Simpson, and the other was Kato Kaelin.

Q. And can you describe Mr. Simpson's demeanor when you observed him
at that time?

A. He was -- he was pretty much enraged. He was pacing back and forth
talking very loudly, speaking with his hands, motioning and pretty
upset.

Q. And what, if any, action did you take at this time?

A. I tried to calm Mr. Simpson. I wanted to have a discussion with him
and I wanted to get his side of the story.

Q. Okay. Did you engage him in discussion at this time?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Did there come a time that anybody else arrived back in the guest
house?

A. Yes.

Q. And who was that?

A. That was my immediate supervisor, Sergeant Craig Lally.

Q. Okay. How long had you been out there when Sergeant Lally arrived?

A. Oh, 7 to 10 minutes.

Q. Okay. And was there any further discussion between yourself,
Sergeant Lally and Mr. Simpson at this time?

A. Yes.

Q. And do you recall approximately how long the conversations were
that you had with him?

A. Well, the first conversation took about 10 minutes or so. We were
in conversation with him on and off for about 30 minutes or so.

Q. When you say on and off, were you talking to anyone else in the
interim?

A. Yes.

Q. Who was that?

A. Nicole Brown Simpson.

Q. Did there come a time that Mr. Simpson left the premises?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Let me ask you, did it ever come to your attention that a
tape recording had been made of these conversations between yourself,
Sergeant Lally, and Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes. It came to my attention about two days before I appeared in
the criminal trial -- before I testified in the criminal trial.

Q. And prior to then -- first of all, who -- did you find out who made
that recording?

A. I found out Sergeant Lally made that recording.

Q. When that recording was being made, did you have any idea it was
being recorded?

A. No, not a clue.

Q. Okay. If you had -- have you had occasion to listen to that tape in
its entirety?

A. Yes, I listened to it.

Q. When was the first time you listened to that tape?

A. Two days before the criminal trial.

Q. And do you recall approximately when that was in terms of --

A. February of '95.

Q. And have you had occasion to listen to it since that time also?

A. Yes.

Q. When was that?

A. Last week, Friday.

Q. And that was with me?

A. Yes.

Q. And would you be able to say that that tape fairly and accurately
represents the conversations that you, Sergeant Lally, and Mr. Simpson
had that night?

A. Yes, it's accurate.

MR. KELLY: Okay, Your Honor, at this time I'd like to play Exhibit
757.

MR. BAKER: Objection.

THE COURT: How long is that?

MR. KELLY: It's 30 minutes, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Well, you got 15 minutes left. I don't want to listen to
half of it.

Objection overruled.

What's the number?

MR. KELLY: 757.

(The instrument herein described as a tape recording made on October
25, 1993 was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 757)

THE COURT: Is there anything else, anything more you want to ask of
this witness before we adjourn?

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) What, if anything, did you do after Mr. Simpson left
the premises, was there any further action you took yourself?

A. Yes.

Q. What was that?

A. I completed a crime report.

Q. And after you completed that crime report, what, if anything, else
did you do?

A. I believe just counsel Nicole Simpson, and we left the residence.

Q. And after that night, when you left that premises, did you ever see
Nicole Brown Simpson again?

A. No.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: I've got a few, Your Honor.

THE COURT: We'll adjourn till tomorrow at 8:30.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinion.

THE WITNESS: I guess I'm ordered back?

THE COURT: You're ordered back.

THE WITNESS: Thank you, Your Honor.

(At 4:16 P.M. an adjournment was taken until Tuesday, November 19,
1996 at 8:30 A.M.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-5</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B007-360</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov19.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053906 text/html 211003
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:48:36 GMT
Last-modified: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 20:58:27 GMT
Content-length: 210808
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/19/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 19, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1996
8:55 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court,
in the presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, at this time we are going to play the tape.

THE COURT: Okay.

THE COURT REPORTER: Does this have an exhibit number?

MR. KELLY: I believe it is 2195.

MR. FOSTER: 757.

(Exhibit 757 an audio tape of 30 minutes' duration was played in open
court, commencing at 8:56 a.m.)

ROBERT LERNER, the witness on the stand at the time of adjournment on
Monday, November 18, 1996, having been previously duly sworn, was
examined and testified further as follows:

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you state are name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: It's Robert Lerner.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Sergeant Lerner, on the tape, a high female voice stated, "I don't
think you need us anymore. Good luck."

Did you recognize that voice?

A. Yes.

Q. Who was that?

A. That was officer Cheryl Kent.

Q. That was another officer that responded to the scene?

A. Yes. There were several officers.

Q. Okay.

"I also felt that if it happened one more time, that it would be the
last time."

Do you recall hearing a female voice saying that?

A. Yes.

Q. Were you able to identify that voice?

A. Yes.

Q. Who was that?

A. That was Nicole Brown.

Q. "He gets this animalistic look to him."

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. This is cumulative of what was already
on the tape.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) "He gets this animalistic look to him."

Did you hear that statement by a female voice?

A. Yes.

Q. Who was that voice?

A. That was also Nicole Brown.

Q. Okay.

"And I get scared when he looks like that."

Did you hear that statement by a female voice?

A. Yes.

Q. And can you identify that voice for us, please.

A. Nicole Brown.

Q. Okay.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: Cross.

CROSS-EXAMINATION

MR. BAKER: Do you want me to have your notes, Mr. Kelly?

MR. KELLY: No.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Good morning.

A. Good morning.

Q. When you met with Mr. Kelly on Friday, were you on LAPD time?

A. Yes.

Q. And LAPD paid for you to go over the tapes and meet with Mr. Kelly
to get ready for your testimony in this case, right?

A. I was on call for court; I was under subpoena.

Q. Maybe you didn't understand the question.

The question was: LAPD paid for you to review the tape, meet with Mr.
Kelly, and prepare yourself to testify in this civil litigation, true?

A. Yes.

Q. All right. Now, the tape that we just heard, that tape was done
surreptitiously, was it not?

A. Correct.

Q. And by "surreptitiously," you didn't know that tape was being taped
when it was being taped, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You have no reason to believe that Mr. Simpson nor Nicole Brown
Simpson knew that that was being taped, true?

A. No reason to believe that at all.

Q. And you have -- in terms of the LA Police Department procedure,
that tape was evidence, was it not?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Argumentative, speculative by this witness, Your
Honor. He indicated it was surreptitious. He didn't even know the tape
was being made.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Let me ask it this way.

Sergeant Lally was your supervisor, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. He's the one that taped that surreptitiously, without anyone
knowing it but him, as far as you are aware, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And he had an obligation under LAPD procedures to book that tape,
but never did until after June 12, 1994; isn't that correct?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Well, let me ask you this then, sir:

Until you were to testify in the criminal trial -- and you testified
on February 3, 1995 -- you didn't even know that tape existed; isn't
that correct?

A. I found out just a couple days before I went on to testify.

Q. So you found out about that tape on February 1, 1995, thereabouts?

A. Yeah.

Q. And I take it that you were somewhat surprised that there was a
tape that had been made and no one had ever informed you about it,
since you were the principal person talking on that tape, correct?

A. One of the principals.

Yes, I was surprised.

Q. And did you ever have a conversation with Sergeant Lally about his
failure to book that tape as evidence after the incident of 10-25-93?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; calls for
speculation; argumentative.

THE COURT: It's hearsay. Sustained.

MR. KELLY: Hearsay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Well, did you do anything as a result of your
knowledge that the tape -- strike that.

Did -- did you check to find out if that tape was ever booked as
evidence before you heard it on February 1, 1995?

A. No.

Q. Had you taped that conversation, you would agree it would be
required that that particular tape be booked as evidence?

MR. KELLY: Objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, there was no contact and no threat of contact
on October 25, 1993 that the -- about the incident on 3-25; is that
correct?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Calls for speculation.

I believe this witness testified he wasn't aware; therefore --

THE COURT: I'll sustain it as far as to form.

You may inquire whether the witness heard any.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Let me read from your trial transcript, sir.

MR. KELLY: Objection. There's no foundation for reading from the
transcript; it's not a part of the --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you testify on February 3, 1995, that there had
been no physical contact and the incident never escalated to physical
contact.

MR. KELLY: Same objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And that was your state of mind then, and that's
your state of mind now, correct, that that incident was, as Mr.
Simpson's -- well, strike that.

We heard on the tape, Mr. Simpson say there was never even close to
contact. You heard that, did you not?

A. I heard that.

Q. That's what he told you, is it not, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. You also were told by Nicole Brown Simpson that he had not
physically touched her since January 1, 1989; you heard that as well,
did you not?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Misstates the evidence, Your Honor. That's not
what the statement was.

THE COURT: You may rephrase it.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You were aware from your being at the 325 South
Gretna Green on October 25, 1993, that Nicole Brown Simpson indicated
that she hadn't been struck by Mr. Simpson since January 1, 1989,
true?

A. I don't recall her saying that.

Q. Now, when you arrived, was Nicole Brown Simpson upstairs or
downstairs in the home at 325 South Gretna Green?

A. I'm not sure. We were out front.

Q. When you first made contact with her, where was she?

A. She met us out front.

Q. All right.

And so at that point in time, then, you -- Strike that.

She had been upstairs, locked in her bedroom when she made the 911
call that you've also heard in preparation for your testimony,
correct?

A. I believe that she said that she went upstairs and locked herself
in the bedroom and called the police.

THE COURT: The record should be clear that I kept him outside the
courtroom while the tape was played so he could not have heard it
during this trial.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) But you heard the 911 tape in preparation -- before
your coming here to court, right?

A. I heard it on TV once.

Q. Okay.

And Nicole Brown, at the time that you heard her voice on the 911
tape, not the Lally surreptitious tape but the 911 tape, was upstairs,
locked in her room, right?

A. If you say so.

Q. And when you --

MR. KELLY: Objection. That's argumentative. This witness has no
knowledge.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. KELLY: I'm sorry.

THE COURT: What's the objection?

MR. KELLY: Lack of foundation.

He just answered, "if you say so." He's indicated he has no knowledge
as to the content of that tape, Your Honor.

THE COURT: So what's the objection?

MR. KELLY: That the last question -- answer -- there's no -- lack of
foundation. It's also argumentative. He asked him a question the
response is --

THE COURT: How could the answer be argumentative?

MR. KELLY: "If you say so," Your Honor; that's his answer.

THE COURT: Why don't you confer with your co-counsel, Mr. Petrocelli.

That is not a proper objection.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, when you arrived, she had, obviously, if she
was upstairs locked in her bedroom, had obviously come downstairs and
come out front, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And when you arrived, Mr. Simpson wasn't out front, was he?

A. No.

Q. He wasn't in the house, either, was he?

A. Wasn't in the main house, no.

Q. He was out in the back house with Mr. Kaelin, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And after you went through the house, you went back into the back
house and talked to O.J. Simpson in the back house, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. All right.

You also did this shutter diplomacy and went to the front house and
talked to Nicole, and went to the back house and talked to O.J., and
felt the incident had resolved, and left, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And -- by the way, did Sergeant -- well, strike that.

Did you ever think there was need for backup at that particular
location?

You can answer yes or no.

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Simpson had never made any threats to anyone during the entire
time that you were there, correct?

A. Verbal threat? You mean threats?

Q. To do physical harm to anybody.

A. No.

Q. And in fact, you had five officers, half the watch there that
night, and you had half the watch there because it was O.J. Simpson
and a celebrity was involved; isn't that true?

A. Partially.

Q. And by the way, were you one of the 25 or so officers on June 13
that felt compelled to go to 875 South Bundy to the crime scene
because a celebrity was involved?

A. No. I wasn't even working West LA.

Q. Now --

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. There's no
foundation for that statement; it's not a proper question; it's
argument to the jury; and it's improper.

THE COURT: The jury is to disregard it. It's not relevant to this
inquiry.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, when you arrived at the front of 325 South
Gretna Green, could you look in through the living-room window?

A. No.

Q. Were the drapes closed?

A. I don't recall.

Q. You don't have any recollection of whether you could see if anybody
was doing something in the living room from the front of the house?

A. No.

Q. Now, what would you define as, please --

You used the word "suspect" when you were being questioned by Mr.
Kelly.

Would you define that term for me?

A. "Suspect," a person who is suspected of committing a crime.

Q. And at the time -- that is, when you entered that house, you
thought that Mr. Simpson was a suspect; is that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in terms of your conversations with O.J. Simpson, Mr. Simpson
was upset about the people -- and he informed you of this -- that his
wife was running around with, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And he was upset about the fact that she was, in fact, in his view
and from his information, running -- having people in the house who
were hookers, correct?

MR. KELLY: Objection. Misstates the evidence and misstates the content
of the tape, also.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: He was concerned.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And he was concerned that there was one person that
he thought was bad for his kids and that his wife shouldn't associate
with, and he didn't want him around the house; isn't that true?

A. Yes.

Q. And that was a gentleman with the first name of Keith, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And he expressed that to you, that in fact, these people that were
around the house had some sort of dealings with Heidi Fleiss, correct?

A. That's --

MR. KELLY: Objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: That's what he indicated.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And he was upset about that, those people being
around his house where his kids were; he informed you of that, didn't
he?

A. Yes.

Q. And he also indicated to you, sir, that he never had intended, nor
was he ever considering any physical violence to Nicole Brown Simpson
that evening, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And he also indicated to you that the door that she said was
broken, before that, she told you he broke -- it was broken before he
ever went to the house; isn't that correct?

A. That's what he claimed.

MR. BAKER: I don't have anything further.

MR. KELLY: No redirect.

THE COURT: Thank you. You're excused.

Okay. Take ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

Don't talk about the case. Don't form or express any opinions.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. KELLY: Judge, before I call the next witness, I want to move in
Exhibit Number 16, which was the October 25, 1993 tape, into evidence;
Exhibit 757, which was the Sergeant Lally tape we just listened to;
and Exhibit 2195, which was the photograph of the front of 325 Gretna
Green Way.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object to the Lally tape on the grounds
there's no foundation, no chain of custody. It is hearsay. It is not a
business records exception.

THE COURT: Overruled. Received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 16 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 757 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2195 was
received in evidence.)

MICHAEL STEVENS, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Sir, if you would, please state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: Michael Stevens, M-I-C-H-A-E-L, S-T-E-V-E-N-S

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Morning, Mr. Stevens.

A. Morning.

Q. Are you currently employed?

A. Yes.

Q. By whom?

A. Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office.

Q. In what capacity are you employed by them?

A. Senior investigator.

Q. Okay.

Were you employed by them in that same capacity on December 6, 1994?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Did you have occasion to go to the Union Bank on San Vicente
Boulevard during the course of your duties that day?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And what was the purpose of going to that Union Bank at that time,
on December 6, 1994?

A. To execute a search warrant.

Q. And was there some particular object that you were executing the
search warrant on?

A. Yes.

Q. What was that?

A. Safe deposit box under the name of Nicole Brown Simpson.

Q. Okay.

And did you determine whether there were any other key-holders to that
particular safety deposit box?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Were there any?

A. No, there was not.

Q. Okay.

And did you determine that she was the signatory to a particular box
number?

A. Yes.

Q. And do you recall what that box number was?

A. 1313.

Q. Okay.

And can you tell me what exactly you did, Mr. Stevenson, [sic] in
terms of executing that search warrant that day at that bank, on the
box, under Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. Myself and my partner, we notified the bank manager, in essence,
presented her with the search warrant, and then had a locksmith come
out -- a county locksmith, by the name of Robert Shapiro, and had
those -- had the safe deposit box drilled open.

Q. Were you present when the safety deposit box was drilled open?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And was subsequently the box removed from the slot it was resting
in?

A. Yes.

Q. Were you -- what was done with that box when it was removed from
the --

A. Myself, my partner, and two representatives of the bank took it to
a booth just outside the vault there, and --

Q. Were you present, Mr. Stevens when the box was physically opened?

A. Yes. I opened it.

Q. And did you remove any of the contents from that box?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And did you do any sort of bookkeeping or administrative work based
on the contents removed from that box?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. What was that?

A. An inventory.

Q. Okay.

MR. KELLY: If I could just show this -- this will be 2196.

MR. BAKER: Let me see that before you put it on the Elmo, please.

MR. KELLY: (Mr. Kelly hands document to Mr. Baker.)

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

(Mr. Baker reviews document.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Inventory re: contents of safety
deposit box belonging to Nicole Brown Simpson was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2196.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Do you recognize that two-page document in front of
you, Mr. Stevens?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. What is that?

A. It's an inventory prepared by plaintiff and myself.

Q. That was the contents of the box that day?

A. Yes.

Q. And included in the contents of that box, there were some
photographs, were there not?

A. Yes, there were.

MR. KELLY: Steve, could I see that photograph number 8, please.

Oh, I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Do you recognize that photograph, Mr. Stevens?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Where do you recognize it from?

A. That was taken out of the safety deposit box by myself.

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me; does that have a number?

MR. KELLY: 8.

And number 9.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson recovered from safety deposit box was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 8.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Photo of Nicole Brown Simpson
with her arm raise; recovered from safety deposit box was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 9.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Do you recognize that photograph, Mr. Stevens?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. I'm sorry; number 9.

A. Yes.

Q. Do you know where -- do you recognize that photograph from?

A. I removed that, also, from out of the safe deposit box.

Q. Okay.

MR. KELLY: Okay. And we're almost done.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, with regard to the various other items removed
from there, also, I believe there was an envelope that indicated "only
open in the presence of an attorney;" is that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And were you present when that envelope was subsequently opened?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Okay. And do you recall what the contents of that sealed envelope
was when it was opened?

A. That was Nicole Brown Simpson's will.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Cross.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER:

Q. It had -- there was a newspaper clipping in there, was there not?

A. Yes, there was. There were several.

Q. About O.J. Simpson --

A. Yes.

Q. -- buying some property in Laguna Beach and that sort of thing?

A. Different articles. There were -- there was one regarding the
incident in January, I believe.

Q. And by the way, when did you go over your testimony with Mr. Kelly?

A. Yesterday morning, or -- I'm sorry. Yesterday afternoon.

Q. And you were on the payroll when that occurred?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Okay.

MR. BAKER: Nothing further.

THE COURT: Your're excused.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, at this time I'd like to move Exhibits 8, 9,
and 2196 into evidence.

THE COURT: Received.

MR. KELLY: Thank you.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 8 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 9 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2196 was
received in evidence.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, Plaintiffs call Brian Kaelin.

BRIAN KAELIN, called as a witness on behalf of the Plaintiffs, was
examined and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Please be seated.

And would you please state and spell your name for the record?

THE WITNESS: Brian Kaelin K-A-E-L-I-N, B-R-I-A-N.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. Morning, Mr. Kaelin.

A. Morning.

Q. You are also known by Kato?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

In October of 1993, October 25 to be specific, you were living with --
you were living at the residence of Nicole Brown Simpson in a guest
house?

A. Yes.

Q. And at that time, were you present during at least part of a verbal
argument between Nicole and Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And the police came?

A. Yes.

Q. Did there come a time when you had occasion to observe the back
door that leads out from her house to the backyard?

A. Yes.

Q. And was that when the police were wrapping up their work and
getting ready to leave?

A. Correct.

Q. What did you see?

A. The door -- the French doors in the back of the Gretna Green house
that was broken on top, and there was wood on the floor.

Q. What did you do?

A. They asked me to, the police, to hammer it shut, the door.

So I picked up the wood; I hammered it and put extra nails in for
safety.

Q. There was actually wood on the floor.

You picked it up and you fixed it?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Leading.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, did -- was that door broken from before,
by the way?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you know?

A. It was at one time broken. I don't know if it was the same part,
but it had a break to it.

Q. Is there any doubt in your mind that the damage that you saw was
fresh damage on that day?

MR. BAKER: Leading.

THE COURT: Sustained.

THE WITNESS: It was fresh damage.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me ask you the question again.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike the answer.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) The piece that you fixed?

A. Yes.

Q. Had you seen that piece before that day, on the ground?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And what did you do with that piece?

A. I got on a chair and I hammered it back where it was broken from.

Q. Okay.

And did you do anything else to the door?

A. Yeah. I think there was maybe another piece. I hammered that in
there; then I put extra nails on top of the door.

Q. Let me now move on.

At the end of the year, you -- did you leave Nicole's guest house?

A. Yes.

Q. Where did you move?

A. To Rockingham.

Q. The home of Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And where did you live at Mr. Simpson's house?

A. I had a guest house in the back.

MR. PETROCELLI: And let me put a board up, Your Honor.

(Counsel places board on easel.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'd like to ask you some questions about the
property, okay?

First of all, you moved in when?

A. I moved in about January 7.

Q. And you were living there still, as of June 12, 1994?

A. Correct.

Q. Were you close friends with O.J. Simpson?

A. No.

Q. How would you describe your relationship with him?

A. When he was around, I would say hi. Never went out with him
socially, and pretty much had his life, I had my life.

Q. Okay.

Did you have access to his house?

A. No.

Q. The inside of the house?

A. No.

Q. Did you have access?

A. No.

Q. Did you have the alarm code?

A. No.

Q. Did you guys hang out together?

A. No.

Q. Did you go out on double dates?

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is 116, Your Honor, this board here.

(Exhibit 116 displayed on easel.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Everybody see?

JURORS: (Nod affirmatively.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Kaelin, can you see from there?

MR. PETROCELLI: May he step down, Your Honor?

THE COURT: (Nods affirmatively.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Where did you live?

A. Right here (indicating).

Q. In that room.

And for you to get to your room from the outside of the property, what
did you do?

A. I would go through this gate (indicating).

Q. Yeah.

A. Come in here, go back down the stairs to the room.

Q. You had a key to your room?

A. Yes.

Q. Did that key work any other doors?

A. No.

Q. So you didn't go through the front of the house --

A. Uh-uh.

Q. -- to get inside your room?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And this part is the main residence. Is that where Mr. Simpson lived?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Did the -- on the weekend of June 11 and June 10 -- June 11 and June
12, excuse me -- did Mr. Simpson have a dog on the property?

A. Yes.

Q. And what was the name of that dog?

A. Chachi.

Q. Can you put up the picture of Chachi.

(Exhibit 114 displayed).

THE COURT REPORTER: Do you know how to spell that?

THE WITNESS: C-H-A-C-H-I.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you get close up?

This is Exhibit 114.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Photograph of Mr. Simpson's
dog, Chachi at front gate on Rockingham, was marked for identification
as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 114.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that Chachi?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you give me a wider shot on that now, Steve, as
wide as it will go.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What gate is that?

A. That's the Ashford gate.

Q. You say that's the gate you usually use to get inside the property?

A. Correct.

Q. Where did you usually park your car?

A. I usually was on Ashford. That's one of my spots. That's my car
right there. (Indicating.)

Q. Can you point to it.

(The witness complies.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect the witness is pointing to the
area -- I guess that would be -- what direction is that? North, east?
Help me out. East?

MR. BAKER: It's south. He's pointing south from the Ashford gate,
south.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm not too good with directions.

To the left of the Ashford gate.

MR. BAKER: Oh, left is east. I agree with that. I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) To the left of the Ashford gate, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Where did Mr. Simpson usually park his Bronco, if you know?

A. Usually on Ashford.

Q. Can you point where on Ashford Mr. Simpson usually parked his
Bronco?

A. I think it would be a wider shot.

It would be here or on this side of the street, sometimes there
(indicating).

Q. And the first place you pointed to was where the mailbox is?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And we're talking about the white Bronco?

A. Correct.

Q. And that's based on your observations, living there between January
1994 and June 1994, right.

MR. BAKER: Leading, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

MR. BAKER: Well --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What is the --

MR. BAKER: Wait. Wait. Time out.

Could we get this witness directed when an objection is sustained, not
to answer, please.

THE COURT: If you would just not lead, it would solve everything,
Counsel.

MR. PETROCELLI: Mr. Kaelin, when there's an objection, hold off for a
second; let the judge rule, okay?

THE WITNESS: (Nods affirmatively.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You gave some testimony about where Mr. Simpson
usually parked his Bronco. What was that based on?

A. Seeing it usually parked there.

Q. And the time that you lived there was when?

A. January, June.

MR. PETROCELLI: Give me the picture of Kato.

The other Kato.

(Exhibit 28, Photograph of Nicole Brown Simpson's dog, Kato, was
displayed on the TV screen.)

(Laughter.)

MR. PETROCELLI: This is Exhibit 28.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, do you recognize the animal?

A. Yes.

Q. What is the name of the animal?

A. Kato.

Q. Do you know who it was named after?

A. Me.

Q. Do you know why that is?

A. The kids were thinking of names to call it and then they said
"Kato."

Q. And was Kato, the dog, on the Simpson property on June 11 and June
12?

A. No.

Q. So how many dogs were on the property during those two days?

A. Chachi only.

Q. Now, could you describe the physical condition of Chachi?

A. I think Chachi had arthritis in the leg; it was always hobbling,
kind of arthritic.

MR. BAKER: I move to strike on the basis of no veterinary foundation.

(Laughter.)

THE COURT: Overruled. Lay opinion as to a dog's condition is common.

(Laughter.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Based on your observations of Chachi, was he an
old dog or younger dog?

A. Older dog.

Q. Did he move quickly, slowly?

A. Slowly.

Q. And did you ever make any observations about what Chachi would do
if the Ashford gates or the Rockingham gates opened up?

A. Chachi usually stayed in one spot on the grass.

Q. Did you see Chachi run out of the gate, either gate, when the gates
were open?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see Mr. Simpson walk Chachi?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see Mr. Simpson take Chachi outside the property?

A. No.

Q. You ever been inside the garage of Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

What did it look like?

A. Cluttered.

Q. With what?

A. It had weights, a car, lot of boxes, I think televisions.

MR. PETROCELLI: Give me 188, Steve.

(Mr. Foster displays photograph on TV screen.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of inside of Mr.
Simpson's garage was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit
No. 188.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) How many times were you in that garage?

A. Maybe two, three, or four times.

Q. I show you Exhibit 188.

Does that appear to be the condition of the garage at the time you saw
it?

A. Yes.

Q. Prior to June 12, 1994, did you know whether there was a door in
that garage that led outside?

A. No.

Q. Had you ever used that door?

A. No.

Q. Had you ever seen anyone use that door?

A. No.

Q. Let's turn to the weekend of June 11 and June 12.

On June 11, did you have occasion to spend any time with Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. When was that?

A. It was in the afternoon, on June 11.

Q. What were the two of you doing?

A. Watching TV.

Q. And did anything come up in the conversation that you recall now?

A. Yes. There was a movie on, "The World According to Garp," and there
was a part that was coming up in the film that he wanted me to see.
And it was a --

You want me to go on?

Q. Please.

MR. BAKER: I'd like a question, Your Honor, instead of a narrative
response.

THE COURT: Ask a question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please relate the conversation between Mr.
Simpson and you regarding the Garp movie.

A. He wanted me to see this part that was coming up in the film with
--

MR. BAKER: Move to strike as nonresponsive.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You may answer.

A. And there's a part in the film where the wife was going to give
oral sex in the car, and he wanted me to see that part.

An he compared it to seeing oral sex -- Nicole giving oral sex at the
Gretna Green house.

Q. What did Mr. Simpson say, as best you can recall, when he pointed
out the oral sex scene to you on television?

A. That he was outside Gretna Green and saw Nicole doing it to a
gentleman named Keith.

Q. And did he tell you when he had seen this?

A. I don't remember the date.

Q. Did Mr. Simpson say anything to you that day about Nicole Brown
Simpson, other than what you just said?

A. There was talk of having a white picket fence -- a white picket
fence and having the kids around; that he liked the sound of having
children around.

Q. Did he say anything else that you can recall?

A. He was getting ready for a dinner, a black-tie dinner, and he was
feeling like he didn't really want to go.

Q. And did he indicate who was going?

A. He --

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this witness testifying
as to what Mr. Simpson was allegedly feeling. He can certainly testify
as to what he said, but I don't think he has any more psychological
background than he does veterinary background.

THE COURT: Sustained.

You may inquire as to what he said.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What we're interested in is what Mr. Simpson
said and did.

A. He said he didn't feel like going to this dinner.

Q. Did he say why?

A. He just didn't want to go.

I think he was just tired.

MR. BAKER: I object to him saying what he thinks.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did he say he was tired?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike what he thinks.

THE COURT: You may inquire whether those were his words. If those were
his words, the objection is overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Were those his words?

A. Yes.

Q. Did he say to you who he was going to the dinner with?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. What did he say?

A. That he was going to the dinner with Paula Barbieri.

Q. And that was the extent of your conversation with him on that day?

A. Pretty much, yes.

Q. Did you see Mr. Simpson the next day --

A. Yes, I did.

Q. -- Sunday, June 12?

A. Yes.

Q. When did you see him on that day for the first time?

A. It was in the afternoon, approximately at 2 o'clock or ...

Q. And where were you with Mr. Simpson at that time?

A. In the kitchen nook area to the house.

Q. And who was there?

A. I -- just myself.

Q. And him?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you have any conversation with him at that time?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And can you recall what was said?

A. Once he got in -- he longed for a white picket fence, to have the
family.

Q. Is that what Mr. Simpson said?

A. That's what Mr. Simpson said.

Q. Okay.

What else did Mr. Simpson say?

A. Well, he was on the phone at this time, to a Traci Adell, and was
telling her that --

Q. Who is Traci Adell?

A. Traci Adell was a friend of mine that he was talking to on the
phone.

Q. How did he get her number?

A. Through -- he left a number for her by getting the number from me,
and she called back.

Q. So, someone that you introduced him to?

A. On the phone, yes.

Q. And after the Traci Adell conversation, did Mr. Simpson say
anything else to you that afternoon?

A. Yes.

Q. What did he say?

A. There was talk of the IRS, and he was mentioning how he was going
to do something with the IRS, with changing Nicole's address, and
somehow that would cause some sort of financial damage to her.

Q. And is that what he said?

A. Yes.

Q. Did he say anything else to you about Nicole in that afternoon
conversation, if you can recall?

A. I don't think so.

Q. Did he say anything to you in that conversation about Paula
Barbieri?

A. Yes.

Q. What did he say?

MR. BAKER: Relevancy, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did he say anything to you about a discussion
with Paula Barbieri and the recital that Mr. Simpson was going to
attend?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Relevance.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You may answer.

A. Yeah. O.J. had said that he didn't want Paula to go to the recital.

And he was mentioning that Paula probably wanted to get married and
have kids, and he was fine, because he had enough kids now and he
didn't want anymore kids. And he wasn't sure that she was the one for
him to settle down with.

Q. Did Mr. Simpson tell you why he did not want Paula to go to the
recital?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Relevancy.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Mr. Simpson had said that what he wanted to do was -- he
thought it would be a family thing and he didn't want Paula to be
there.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, did you go someplace when that
conversation ended?

A. Yes.

Q. And what did you do?

A. I played basketball.

Q. And at some point in time, you got back in from basketball. Do you
recall when that was?

A. I think it was about 6:30 or 7:00, approximately.

Q. You got back from basketball, what did you do when you returned
from basketball?

A. I went back into the nook area.

He called me in.

Q. You entered the property, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Just so we understand what you mean about the nook area, we're
referring to 1126.

You entered the Ashford gate?

A. Yes.

Q. And you're starting to walk there?

A. I'm starting to walk right in front there. And I think he said
"Kato."

Q. And Mr. Simpson is where, right here?

A. Should I go down there?

Q. Sure.

A. The nook area would be here (indicating).

Q. Okay.

You're pointing to this little area that juts out from the main
residence, and he then called you into the nook area?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And when you went inside and spoke to him, was this before or after he
had come back from the recital?

A. This was after the recital.

Q. And what, if anything, did Mr. Simpson say to you about the recital
that he had just attended?

A. O.J. had said that he was wondering what it would be like for these
women to be wearing their outfits when they're grandmas, he had said.

Q. Did he indicate which women he was referring to?

A. Nicole.

Q. What did he say about that?

A. What is she going to do when she's a grandma?

Q. Referring to?

A. Her outfit.

Q. What did -- describe the outfit.

A. Miniskirt.

Q. And what else did Mr. Simpson say to you about the recital, if
anything?

A. He said that Nicole was playing hardball with him because he wanted
to see his daughter, Sydney, and she wasn't --

Q. I'm sorry?

A. -- allowing him to.

Q. Mr. Simpson indicated to you what in regard to Sydney and Nicole?

A. He regarded that he wanted to see his daughter and Nicole was
playing hardball, because she wouldn't let him see her after the
recital.

Q. And did he say anything else to you about the recital that you can
remember?

A. No.

Q. By the way, what was Mr. Simpson wearing at the time of that
conversation, at about 6:30, 7 o'clock?

A. I thought it was a sharp-looking sweatsuit, dark, white zipper.

Q. What do you mean by a sweatsuit?

A. Like a jogging outfit.

Q. When that conversation ended, what did you do?

A. I'd asked if it was okay for me to take a jacuzzi.

Q. What did he say?

A. Yes.

Q. And then what happened?

A. I took a jacuzzi.

Q. And after you finished your jacuzzi, what did you do?

A. I finished the jacuzzi; I went back into my room, and then he came
to my door and told me that I forgot to turn the jacuzzi jets off.

Q. Okay. You're in your room now?

A. I'm in my room.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have Exhibit -- Steve -- yeah, give us 143, the
inside of Mr. Kaelin's room.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Mr. Kaelin's room
at Rockingham was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
143.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, is that your room -- was that your room, I
should say?

A. Yes.

Q. And this (indicating), is that a door there?

A. Yes, it's a door.

Q. And is that door --

Now I'm going to go to 116.

Does that door point out into the yard here?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And this is a wall behind your bed?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's a wall that is along this south pathway where this air
conditioner is located?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have another shot of that room, Steve.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

THE REPORTER: Excuse me; what exhibit is that?

MR. PETROCELLI: 194.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Mr. Kaelin's room
at Rockingham was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
194.)

Q. That's another picture of your room?

That's the bed you slept in?

A. Um-hum. Yes.

Q. There is a picture on the wall. Is that the same wall where the air
conditioner was located?

A. The back wall, yes.

Q. And the air conditioner is on the other side of the bed?

A. (Nods affirmatively.)

Q. Is that correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

So you're in your room and Mr. Simpson came to your room. And what did
he say?

A. He had told me that I forgot to turn the jacuzzi jets off.

I apologized.

Q. And you remember what he was wearing at that time?

A. It was the same outfit I'd seen before, the dark sweats.

Q. Was it common, by the way, for Mr. Simpson to come to your room?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Object, your Honor. There's no foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Was that -- was that the first time he had been
to your room?

A. I think maybe once before.

Q. After you apologized, what happened next?

A. He had left, and it seemed like he came back again, a short time
later.

Q. And when Mr. Simpson returned a short time later, what were you
doing?

A. I was on the phone.

Q. And who were you talking to?

A. To Tom O'Brien.

Q. Where did O'Brien live at the time you were talking to him?

A. In San Diego.

Q. And what happened when Mr. Simpson came to your room this second
time this evening?

A. He asked to borrow some money.

Q. You were on the phone?

A. I was on -- on the phone.

Q. What did he do? He knocked on the door?

A. He shouted my name.

I didn't get off the phone; I put it down on the bed; and I said,
"What's up?"

And he said, I have an embarrassing question; I've got to ask you for
some money because all I have is hundreds.

Q. Did he say to you why he needed the money?

A. For a sky cap to tip him, I believe.

Q. And what did you say?

A. I said sure. I gave him a twenty.

Q. And then what happened?

A. Well, then he said he was going to get something to eat, and I
invited myself to come along, and --

Q. How did you do that?

A. I said, hey, I'm kind of hungry; can I go?

Q. Let me back up for a second.

After you gave him the 20-dollar bill, what did he say next to you?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: That he --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You said something about going to dinner, if
you can recall?

A. Yeah. He had said that he was going to get something to eat.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object to that leading of Mr. Petrocelli. He
can ask a question without saying --

MR. PETROCELLI: I was trying to bring him back to the same point of
reference.

MR. BAKER: Then going to dinner.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You understand where we are in the testimony?

I'm trying to get you to tell the jury, as best as you can recall,
what Mr. Simpson said to you after you gave him the 20-dollar bill?

A. Okay. I was -- he had mentioned that he was going to get something
to eat.

Q. Is that what he said?

A. Yes.

Q. I'm going to get something to eat?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. And what did you then say?

A. I wanted to come along, and I asked if it was okay for me to go.

Q. Is that what you said?

A. Yes. Can I go?

I was on the phone. I told Tom, my friend, hey, I'll call you back.

Q. And then what did Mr. Simpson say when you said, "Can I go?"

A. There was a pause.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike as nonresponsive, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You may answer.

A. There was a pause, and I felt as if I wasn't supposed to invite
myself.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike as nonresponsive.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: Can he answer the question?

THE COURT: Spit it out.

THE WITNESS: So I invited myself.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What did Mr. Simpson say after you said --

A. It was quite a pause. Then he said to me, yeah, you can come along.

Q. Okay.

And you, in terms of your state of mind when he said that, after the
pause, what did you feel?

A. That I invited myself.

MR. BAKER: I object. It's irrelevant.

THE COURT: The answer may remain.

Let's move it along.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, when you -- when Mr. Simpson came down to
see you, did you look at the watch or the clock to see what time it
was?

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me show you the next exhibit in order, exhibit --
the next exhibit -- I should say Exhibit C-189.

(The instrument herein referred to as Blow up entitled calls made by
Brian Kaelin June 12, 1994 was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 189.)

Q. We showed you your phone records.

From that phone record, can you tell us what time Mr. Simpson came to
your room and asked you for the money --

A. Yes.

Q. -- and then went off to dinner?

This is 189.

There's an entry on June 12 at 2103, which is 9:03, to San Diego for 8
minutes. Is that the call?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. That's to whom?

A. To Tom O'Brien.

Q. So at the end of that call, would have been 9:11 p.m.?

A. Yes.

Q. And is that the time that you think you left with Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And when you hung up the phone with Mr. Simpson -- with Mr. O'Brien,
excuse me -- you then proceeded with Mr. Simpson to go where?

A. Through the house.

Q. Yeah?

A. To the nook area.

Q. Yeah?

A. And into the Bentley.

Q. Now, during this entire period of time, from the moment you invited
yourself to dinner, to the time you got in the car, the Bentley, did
Mr. Simpson ask you where you wanted to go for dinner?

A. No.

Q. Did Mr. Simpson say anything to you about what dress you should
wear or he should wear for dinner?

A. No.

Q. Did you say anything to Mr. Simpson about where you should go for
dinner?

A. No.

Q. Was there any conversation at all about where you were going to
dinner?

A. No.

Q. When you got in the Bentley, did you know where you were going to
dinner?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Objection. Relevance, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, what happened when you got into the
Bentley?

A. I got into the passenger side and we took off.

Q. Okay.

And what gate did you leave out of?

A. It would be the Rockingham gate.

Q. Okay.

And you -- when -- you know how Mr. Simpson opened the Rockingham
gate, from inside his Bentley?

A. I think there was a button he presses.

Q. And the gates automatically open?

A. Yes.

Q. Did Mr. Simpson do anything unusual when he got to the Rockingham
gate before he left?

A. No.

Q. Did he stop and wait for the gates to close before he took off?

A. No.

Q. Did he say anything to you about looking for Chachi?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Leading and suggestive.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

Where did you and Mr. Simpson drive?

A. We drove to McDonald's.

Q. Okay.

At any point during the ride to McDonald's, did Mr. Simpson say to you
where you were going?

A. No.

Q. So you didn't know?

A. I did not know.

Q. At some point in time, he pulled into a McDonald's?

A. Correct.

Q. And what happened then?

A. Went to the drive-through and he ordered the food.

Q. Okay.

Happen to remember what he ordered?

A. I think it was a large hamburger.

MR. BAKER: Relevance.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Large one, I think fries, and a drink.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you ordered?

A. A grilled McChicken and French fries and an orange drink.

Q. And who paid?

A. I paid.

Q. And did -- do you know if Mr. Simpson -- how he -- you paid by
giving up the money to Mr. Simpson?

A. Correct.

Q. Was there any change coming back?

A. Yes, there was.

Q. Who handed it back to you?

A. He did.

Q. Do you know whether Mr. Simpson got any change for the airport, for
the sky cap?

A. No.

Q. After the food was ordered, then what happened?

A. Then we drove right back.

He ate his food and drove right back to the house.

Q. Mr. Simpson ate his food in the car?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you eat your food in the car?

A. No.

Q. What were you doing with your food?

A. It was in my lap.

Q. Was there a lot of conversation in the car?

A. No.

Q. Now, what happened when you returned to Rockingham?

A. Okay. We got -- I got out of the car.

Q. First of all, do you remember which gate you used to get back on to
the property?

A. I'm pretty sure it was the Ashford gate.

So I got out of the car and had my food and I started to walk towards
the nook area and I looked behind and he wasn't next to me, and then I
said, well, I'll go to my room.

Q. When you got out of the car and -- with your food and started
walking to the nook area, why were you doing that?

A. Because I thought -- we had gone to get the dinner together -- that
I was going to eat it there too, you know, eat it with him.

Q. Okay. Did you assume that he was going into the kitchen with you?

A. I assumed --

MR. BAKER: Irrelevant, and his state of mind is immaterial.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you -- as you approached the kitchen nook
door -- is there a door there?

A. Yes.

Q. -- what did you see Mr. Simpson doing?

A. He was at the front door of the Bentley, just standing there.

Q. Okay. Was he walking?

A. No.

Q. Was he bending down?

A. No.

Q. Was he scooping out lettuce from the driver's side of his car?

A. No.

Q. Was he doing anything to indicate that he was cleaning or picking
things up?

A. No.

Q. What did you say to him?

A. I looked, and I said I'll go to my room.

Q. Okay. And when you got to your room, what did you do?

A. I think I got the food and I called Tom back.

Q. And from your cell phone records, again --

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number is that, 189?

A. It was a regular phone.

Q. I'm sorry. From your telephone records, Exhibit 189, there's an
entry at 9:37 to San Diego, 7 minute phone call.

A. (Nods affirmatively.)

Q. Is that the time that you made a phone call, when you got back from
McDonald's?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Using that as a point of reference, 9:37, what time did you get
back to your room following the trip to McDonald's with Mr. Simpson?

A. I got back to the room probably right at 9:37, possibly, called Tom
immediately.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to put up 116 again, the diagram of
Rockingham.

(Exhibit 116 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And if you would, with the Court's permission,
walk over here and point to where the -- Mr. Simpson's Bentley was
parked when you returned from Rockingham?

A. Right here.

Q. In that little alcove there?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Can we put an X.

MR. PETROCELLI: Indicating this alcove.

MR. BAKER: I understand he's indicating.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't think we need an X.

THE COURT: It's his exhibit.

You want an overlay; do your overlay.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Where's the door, by looking at Exhibit 116, to
the kitchen nook that you were heading towards?

A. (Indicating.)

Q. At what point in the path from the Bentley to the kitchen nook did
you decide to go back to your room?

A. Right here.

Q. Okay. And at what point in your trip from the Bentley to the
kitchen did you turn around and see Mr. Simpson, where were you?

A. I was about here (indicating).

Q. And where was he?

A. Still right here, at the car (indicating).

Q. Okay. Now, after you went back to your room, what did you do?

A. From McDonald's?

Q. Yeah.

A. I called Tom up.

Q. And after you got off the phone call with Tom, what did you do?

A. I was going to type up resumes. I -- there was a typewriter in the
office area, so I plugged it in two outlets and I tried to plug it in
everywhere and it wasn't working. After I sort of gave up on it, I
called up Rachel.

Q. And who is Rachel?

A. She was a friend of mine.

Q. And she's a local call?

A. Yes.

Q. And you spoke to Rachel on the telephone?

A. I did.

Q. What else did you do?

A. Well, the time I was talking to her I was kind of -- had the phone
in the bed. I said, Rachel, I'm plugging in this typewriter, it's not
working here. I was explaining to her that the outlets weren't
working. And I stayed on the phone with her for awhile.

Q. And during the time that you were in the room -- you were in your
room, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Did you ever leave the property during this time you're describing?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Okay. You left the property when something happened later on,
right?

A. Correct.

Q. Before we get to that, during the time that you're in your room
talking to Rachel about a typewriter, did you leave the room at all?

A. No.

Q. Did you see Mr. Simpson at all?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear him?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Were you looking at the clock and watch at all?

A. No.

Q. Then what happened?

A. Then I heard these three noises that were thumps, three loud
thumps, and my picture moved in the...

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have the photo of his room with the picture.

This is 143 on the television monitor.

Give me 194, Steve.

(Exhibit 194 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When the noises occurred, did you look at a
watch or a clock?

A. No.

Q. And you said a picture moved. Can you point to Exhibit 194 and tell
us what picture you're referring to?

A. This picture. It just moved after I heard the thumps, the picture
moved that way.

Q. It tilted a little bit?

A. It tilted.

Q. How do you know that it moved?

A. I saw it.

Q. Now, where were you at the precise time that you heard these
noises?

A. Leaning up against this bed, like that, talking on the phone
(indicating).

Q. Talking on the phone?

A. (Witness nods.)

Q. So your back was against the head board?

A. Yes.

Q. And you said you heard these noises.

What did they sound like?

A. Like someone falling back behind my bedroom wall.

Q. And what makes you say that?

A. Because that's what it sounded like to me after --

Q. You previously testified about the rhythm and volume of these
noises.

Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. By hitting the witness stand.

Can you demonstrate that to the jury, the rhythm and the volume of the
noises.

A. (Witness pounds witness stand three times.)

Q. And did you feel anything against your back?

A. Yes.

Q. What did you feel?

A. Vibration.

Q. Okay. What did you then do?

A. Well, I talked to Rachel on the phone, I said, Rachel, did we just
have an earthquake?

Q. Why did you say that?

A. I kind of wanted to believe that it was an earthquake because the
picture moved. And she said no.

Q. Why did you want to believe it was an earthquake?

A. Because I didn't want to believe there was someone back there.

Q. And what did Rachel then say?

A. She said no.

Q. What did you then do?

A. I explained to her what had happened, the picture moved, and I said
I should probably check on this.

Q. What did you do?

A. I got off the phone with her and then -- I have a flashlight, pen
light, in the drawer, and I went to check on the noise.

Q. About how long of a period of time were you on the telephone with
Rachel from the time you heard these noises until the time you got
off?

A. About two to three minutes.

Q. And at two to three minutes, what was said?

A. To Rachel?

Q. Yes, and you.

A. I was saying to her that this noise -- that it first was an
earthquake, and I was trying to convince myself that -- not to be
scared. I told her, well, I'm going to check on this noise. If you
don't hear from me in ten minutes, be worried. In a joking manner. And
she was saying why don't you come over here, that type --

Q. She said why don't you come over here?

A. Yes.

Q. What did you say?

A. I said no, I better check on this.

Q. Was there anything else said?

A. No.

Q. Is that all that was said in the time from when you heard the
noises until you got off?

A. I believe so, yes.

MR. BAKER: Leading and suggestive, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Can you recall anything else that was said
other than what you have testified to thus far?

A. No.

Q. From the time you heard the noises until the time you got off?

A. No, I think that was it.

Q. Okay. Now, when you got off the phone, did you look at a watch or a
clock?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Why don't you then describe again what you did when you got
off the phone?

A. I went out through the -- my door.

Q. First you did what?

A. I opened the drawer.

Q. Yes.

A. And I had a flashlight.

Q. Now, there's a dresser right next to your bed here, underneath the
picture.

Is that the dresser that had the drawer that you opened?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. And you got -- what kind of flashlight did you get?

A. Like about the size of this pen (indicating to magic marker). Or
marker.

Q. Okay.

A. And I went outside and I went to the path to the front of the house
and I followed that around.

Q. Now, could you go over to Exhibit 116, and it might be helpful if
you use this pointer, and could you trace for the jury the route that
you took when you left your house upon hearing -- left your room upon
hearing the noises?

A. I went out my door, through to these stairs, followed this to that
path and I took this path all the way there.

Q. Okay. Why don't you stop there for a moment.

At what pace were you walking?

A. Brisk.

Q. From the moment you grabbed the flashlight or pen light or whatever
it was, till the time that you started walking out, did you do
anything in between?

A. No.

Q. And did you walk directly to the area that you just traced?

A. Yes.

Q. And approximately how long did that take from -- let me clarify the
question.

How long did it take from when you got off the phone with Rachel until
the time that you arrived around this point right here (indicating to
Exhibit)?

A. About 30 to 40 seconds.

Q. Now, when you arrived at that point, and for the record, I was
pointing to where the pathway intersects the driveway, did you see
anything?

A. Yes, there was the limousine at the gate.

Q. You saw a limousine at the gate?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Where was the limousine parked, if you could be a little more
precise?

A. Here's the gate, and the car was pulled all the way up to the gate.

Q. When you passed that limousine or walked by that limousine, did you
stop?

A. No.

Q. Did you wave?

A. No.

Q. Did you do anything in regard to the limousine?

A. No.

Q. What did you do?

A. I went back, followed this -- the driveway, and I went behind by
the garage area, where I -- there's a little gate here that's off the
hinge, I picked it up and I moved to the side and I walked down just a
bit of the way with the pen light and tried to look.

Q. And what was your purpose in going where you just described?

A. Well, I heard it back here and I thought that's the way I have to
go to see if -- where the noise is coming from.

Q. Okay. I'd like you to assume that based upon cell phone records and
other evidence in the case, that the limousine driver saw you --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to this, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, your honor, I haven't finished my question.

MR. BAKER: I understand that. But there's no -- this is leading,
suggestive, and hypothetical.

MR. PETROCELLI: It is not leading.

THE COURT: Sustained. I'll sustain it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay. Do you have an estimate of the time that
you heard these noises?

A. In between the 10:40 to 10:50 hour.

Q. Okay. Now, is that -- what do you base that on?

A. The phone calls.

Q. All right. Did you at any time --

A. I didn't, I never looked at a clock.

Q. I can't hear you.

A. I didn't look at a clock.

Q. At any time?

A. No.

Q. Now, when you walked past that limo driver, after hearing the
noises, was that the first time that evening that you walked past a
limo driver on the property?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Why don't you complete what you were telling us. You walked
behind that garage, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And what did you do?

MR. BAKER: I object to a narrative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I walked a few steps, five feet, and I shined the light, and the
light was -- it's somewhat dim, and I went back out that same path. I
put the gate back up.

Q. Well, how far did you get down?

A. Maybe here.

Q. Okay. Why did you stop?

A. Scared.

Q. And why were you scared?

A. Because I had a little pen light and that's it.

Q. Was it dark?

A. Yes.

Q. Could you see in front of you?

A. Not really.

Q. When you turned around, what did you then do?

A. All right. So I went back up this way and I put the gate back up
and I noticed the limo still was outside and I thought maybe I should
let this limo driver in.

Q. Okay. Why don't you -- before you get to the limo driver, let me
ask you a couple of other questions.

When you did your first route around the back of the house to the
front of the house, were -- were you able to observe the main
residence?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Did you notice if there were any lights on in the downstairs
part of the main residence in the back when you were walking around?

A. I thought maybe the bedroom lights might have been on.

Q. Now, the bedroom is not -- is the bedroom downstairs or upstairs?

A. It's upstairs.

Q. Whose bedroom?

A. O.J.'s.

Q. So what are you saying, that you thought you saw what upstairs?

A. I thought maybe the lights were -- in the upstairs were on,
possibly.

Q. Could you tell if his television was on?

A. Yes.

Q. Could you tell --

A. No, it wasn't on.

Q. Could you tell if it had been on?

A. No.

I think I'm confusing the question. I'm sorry.

Q. Let me ask you this: Had you ever seen from your vantage point in
the back of the house, in the backyard, up into Mr. Simpson's bedroom,
could you ever tell if he were watching television?

A. Yeah, I could see a reflection.

Q. You could see what?

A. A reflection that I could tell if the TV was on.

Q. At night?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. What do you mean by reflection?

A. The screen of the TV will reflect off the window.

Q. And --

A. His bedroom window.

Q. His bedroom window?

A. Yes.

Q. When you made this route around the house after you heard the
noises, did you see anything from Mr. Simpson's bedroom to indicate
that the television was on?

MR. BAKER: Objection, no foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Did not see.

Q. Okay. And please state again whether or not you saw lights on or
off in the bottom part of the house?

A. I believe they were off.

Q. Okay. Now, when you walked around the house the first time and you
walked past this point here, did you notice whether lights were on or
off in this part of the house, the front part that faces the driveway?

A. I believe it was dark.

Q. Okay. After you came back from your trip from behind the garage, or
your partial trip I should say, you said you saw the limo driver was
out there?

A. I saw the limo was back there.

Q. Was the car in a different or the same place than when you saw it
the first time?

A. Same place.

Q. What did you do?

A. I went to this gate control box.

Q. Yes.

A. And I opened it up, I pressed the button, and the gates opened.

Q. What gates opened?

A. The Ashford Street gate. So the limo could get in.

Q. And what happened?

A. And the driver drove up. And the dog was here, Chachi, and I waited
for Chachi to get across because Chachi started to go in front of the
car and went back into the grass area, and the driver came up.

Q. Now, when you let the limo driver in by pressing that button, as of
that time had you had any conversation with him at all?

A. No.

Q. Had you even seen him?

A. No.

Q. So you did this on your own?

A. Yes.

Q. And why did you do so?

A. I was wondering why he was out there.

Q. Had you ever done that before?

A. No.

THE COURT: Want to take a recess of 10 minutes?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes, Your Honor, it's a good time.

THE COURT: Witness is ordered not to speak to the media.

THE BAILIFF: Media folks, stand by --

THE COURT: You're ordered not to interfere with the trial process by
attempting to interview the witness during the recess.

THE BAILIFF: All media out in the hallway to the right side. Do not
approach any of the -- approach where the witnesses are standing for
the recess.

(Break.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me back up a second.

When you heard the noises against the wall --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to this exhibit because there's some
inaccuracy on that exhibit.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm only using it for the location of the rooms, Mr.
Baker, not the --

MR. BAKER: Everybody can see everything.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't think --

MR. BAKER: The first floor protection plan is inaccurate.

MR. PETROCELLI: It was used in the other case.

MR. BAKER: That doesn't make it any more accurate.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to be using it to refer to locations of
particular rooms, okay?

THE COURT: You may.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

By the way, that number is Exhibit 199, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

(The instrument herein described as a diagram entitled "360 North
Rockingham Avenue," with a legend at the bottom, was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 199.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Was this the first time you had ever heard
noises against the room of your wall (sic)?

A. Yes.

Q. Was this the first time you had ever gone to investigate sounds
behind your wall?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you were walking around from the back -- I want to make
sure we understand your testimony -- I asked you if you saw any lights
on in the downstairs of the house.

You remember those questions?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Okay. So when you left your room -- and I'm referring to this
exhibit.

MR. FOSTER: 199.

MR. PETROCELLI: 199.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) To be more specific, did you see any lights in
the family room?

A. No, I don't believe I did.

Q. If lights were on in the family room, would you have seen them?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you see any lights in the living room?

A. No.

Q. If lights were on in the living room, would you have seen them?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, we come around, and you have this den here. Did you see lights
on in the den?

A. No.

Q. Would you have seen lights if they were on?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And what about in the kitchen breakfast area, see lights on there?

A. No.

Q. Would you be able to see lights on?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. When the limousine driver pulled in, did the dog, Chachi, run out
of the gate?

A. No.

Q. And what happened now, picking up the story, when the limousine
driver pulled in, what did you then do?

A. Okay, I was making sure that Chachi was safe. He was crossing in
front of the limo, then he, Chachi, laid down in the grass, and the
limo driver -- limo driver pulled up to the front door entrance.

Q. Did he get out?

A. Yes.

Q. This is the first time you actually saw him?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Okay. Continue; what happened next?

A. So he got out of the car, and I introduced myself and he introduced
himself, and I had some conversation with him about the -- I told him
about the noises I had heard. Then I told him that I had this light
and I was going to go back there. And I ended up going back there. I
also asked him in other parts of the conversation where -- I was
asking him if O.J. overslept.

Q. Why did you ask the limousine driver if Mr. Simpson had overslept?

MR. BAKER: Objection, state of mind is irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What did the limousine driver say in response
to that?

MR. BAKER: Hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

THE WITNESS: I don't remember offhand.

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection has been sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) After you had some conversation with the
limousine driver, you said you went to look again behind the garage?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Now, up to that point in time, had you seen Mr. Simpson since the
Bentley?

A. I don't believe so, no.

Q. Since your trip to McDonald's?

A. Correct.

Q. And what did you then do when you went behind the house again?

Let me put up the exhibit.

(Exhibit 116 displayed.)

Q. You can tell us, though.

A. This is my second trip. What I did is I went a little further this
time.

Q. And why?

A. I felt a little safer. The limo driver was there. I also had said
to Chachi, come on, Chachi, come with me, and he just laid there. I
just said to the limo driver, I said great watch dog, huh, and I think
he laughed.

Then I went back there.

Q. Why did you want Chachi to come with you?

A. You know, a dog, if there's a prowler, it would frighten him I
believe. I thought it was safer to have a dog.

Q. You ended up going alone?

A. Yes.

Q. With the same light?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. And can you -- by going to Exhibit 116, can you point out to
the ladies and gentlemen of the jury how far you went?

(Exhibit 116 displayed.)

A. This time I went down the pathway, I moved the gate again and I
picked it up, put it down. There's another gate there, here, about
here, and I went about three to five feet in front of it, the gate.

Q. And where on Exhibit 116 did you hear the noises?

A. Down here.

Q. And as far as you went was where?

A. Right about here.

Q. And you're pointing to the end of the garage?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. Now, on your return trip, the second time, what did you do?
You turned around and did what?

A. Turned around and I put back that gate.

Q. Yeah?

A. And I went to the limo driver.

Q. Okay. And when you went back to the limo driver, what was he doing?

A. I don't remember.

Q. Did you see anything at all on your way back from the back of the
garage?

A. I believe I saw O.J.

Q. Okay?

A. And he was outside -- I don't know if he was coming in from the
door or not but he was just outside.

Q. And do you know what he was doing?

A. No.

Q. Did you notice any luggage anywhere?

A. Yes, there was a golf bag right here at this doorway.

Q. Yeah?

A. And on my second trip I noticed there was a duffel bag right here.

Q. You're pointing to . . .

A. Where the Bentley would be -- in the back of the Bentley.

Q. Back of the Bentley. And you noticed that bag when?

A. On my second trip.

Q. When you say on your second --

A. Second trip.

Q. To or from the back of the house?

A. This is coming back from the house.

Q. The second time?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put on the next picture, Steve. What exhibit
number is that, 2197?

(The instrument herein described as a Photograph of the Bentley
automobile belonging to O.J. Simpson was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2197.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This is a photograph taken later on. Do you
recognize what's in the photo?

A. Yes.

Q. What is it?

A. It's the Bentley.

Q. I'm not sure if you can tell from this photo, let us know if you
can, point out to the jury the area where you saw this bag.

A. The bag would have been under this taillight, about here.

(Indicating to exhibit.)

Q. And, if you could, sort of transpose that onto Exhibit 116. And I
know these things may not be to scale, just do your best.

A. Right. If it would be parked right here, it would be out on this
side here, the bag.

Q. So you're pointing to the area above the A in driveway?

A. Yes.

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

A. In back of the Bentley where it would be parked, correct.

Q. Had you ever seen that bag before?

A. Never.

Q. When you saw the bag, did you go up to it?

A. At one point I was going towards it.

Q. On your trip back from the garage?

A. No, I just walked right by it.

Q. You just observed it?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you do anything to it?

A. No.

Q. When you saw Mr. Simpson, did you have any conversation with him,
did he -- you can answer yes or no.

A. Yes.

Q. What did he say and what did you say?

A. I had told him about the noises I had heard.

Q. Tell me what you said?

A. I said, hey, you know, I heard these noises behind my room, I
thought it was an earthquake but it wasn't an earthquake, my picture
moved, I think something was back there.

Q. And what did he say?

A. At one point he had said well, I'll go one way, you go one way to
check on the noise.

Q. Okay.

A. I had said, I've got this lousy flashlight here and it could only
go so far. And the limo driver had already checked 'cause I asked him
in a previous conversation, and he didn't have one, but he kept
looking in his glove box, I believe, for a better flashlight, the limo
driver, and we didn't find one.

Q. Then in this conversation with Mr. Simpson you said something to
him about a flashlight?

A. Correct.

Q. What did you say and what did he say?

A. I said, this is the only flashlight I have, I hope we have a better
one, if we have a better one and he said he'd go and check if there
was a better flashlight in the house.

Q. And then what happened?

A. Well, at one point he was motioning to which side he was going to
go and cover and which side I would go around, and then I mentioned
again that this is a lousy flashlight, so that he went into the house
to check -- to find --

Q. Did you go with him?

A. Yes.

Q. And tell me what happened once you were inside the house?

A. Once I'm inside the house, there's an opening to the kitchen, and I
would stand right here, and he'd be in the kitchen there.

MR. PETROCELLI: Watch out.

(Indicating to Mr. Kaelin's use of the pointer in the path of the jury
box.)

THE WITNESS: Lawsuit.

Q. You might want to step back.

A. So I -- and I walked into the kitchen area so I could see him in
the kitchen, and then he went and he looked at the clock and said,
it's that late, I got to go.

Q. Did you get into the kitchen?

A. I was at the doorway of the kitchen. I could see into the kitchen.

Q. Let me get this straight. You followed him into the house?

A. Into the house.

Q. And then he went into the kitchen?

A. Correct.

Q. And you got to the threshold?

A. Yes.

Q. And what did you see him do inside the kitchen?

A. Kind of hurried, and walked -- and he looked up at the clock and
said, oh, my God, it's that time, I got to go.

Q. And then what happened?

A. Then he came outside to the foyer area.

Q. And what happened?

A. And then he was getting ready to leave.

Q. Did the two of you then leave the house?

A. Well, we were in the -- by the doorway.

Q. Inside or outside?

A. Inside, yes.

Q. Did you walk out?

A. Yes.

Q. From the time he said, oh, I got to go, did you -- did you then
immediately go out with him?

A. No, because he had mentioned to me in the foyer to set the alarm.

Q. Oh? Tell us about that.

A. So I was still sort of in the foyer area, and he said, well, set
the alarm. I said, I don't know the alarm code. I said, you do. And
that was the last --

Q. Had he ever asked you to set the alarm before?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever have anything to do with the alarm?

A. No.

Q. After he asked you to set the alarm and you said you didn't know
how, what happened then?

A. Well, I assume that he was setting the alarm, and I started to walk
and I saw that the duffel bag was still there.

Q. You're now outside the house?

A. Now I'm outside the house.

Q. Is he outside the house?

A. Yes.

Q. Let me stop you right there.

When Mr. Simpson was in the kitchen and you were at the threshold of
the kitchen, did you see him bleed?

A. No.

Q. Did you see him dab blood onto a paper towel or tissue?

A. No.

Q. Did you see bleeding onto a counter?

A. No.

Q. Had you seen any blood?

A. No.

Q. When you got outside with Mr. Simpson, then what happened?

A. Okay. Now that I thought that he was setting the alarm, I came out
this way and I noticed that the bag was still there, and I thought
that's part of the luggage, and I started to walk towards the bag, to
get the duffel bag, to pack it.

Q. And then what happened?

A. And then he said to me, no, Kato, I'll get that, I'll get that.

Q. Who said that?

A. O.J.

Q. What did he say?

A. No, Kato, I'll get that, I'll get that.

Q. Then what did he do?

A. Then I turned around, and he came that way and I -- then I never
saw what happened.

MR. PETROCELLI: And you may resume the witness stand.

Let me get an exhibit. This has been previously marked as Exhibit 899?

MR. FOSTER: Yes.

(Displaying Exhibit 899.)

Q. Let me show you what has been marked as Exhibit 899.

Do you see this bag?

A. Yes.

Q. Is this the bag that you saw behind the Bentley?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Have you ever seen this bag before?

A. No.

Q. When you had the -- withdrawn.

When you came out of the house, Mr. Simpson went to get the bag, then
what happened?

A. Then he got into the limousine.

Q. Okay.

A. And they were off.

Q. Now, how did they get out of the property?

A. There's another gate box.

Q. Yeah. You want to point it out?

(Witness indicates to Exhibit 116.)

A. So they got into the limousine, and it's in the driveway, and I
went over here to the gate control box, and I opened it up.

Q. Then what happened?

A. They drove off.

Q. They went out the Rockingham gate?

A. Correct.

Q. Which direction did the car turn, if you know?

A. They were going to the airport, so I imagine left.

Q. You did see them turn?

A. I waited for the gate to close so I believe I did.

Q. Did the dog run out?

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: You may resume the witness stand.

(Witness complies.)

Q. Now, couple of questions about what you just testified to.

From the time that you last saw Mr. Simpson at the Bentley, after
McDonald's, until the time that you next saw him in this area backing
up the car -- are you with me?

A. Yes.

Q. During that period of time.

A. Um-hum.

Q. Did you have any contact with him at all?

A. No.

Q. Did you talk to him?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear his voice?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear any activity coming from the house?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear the chipping of golf balls?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear any golf balls scalding play equipment or hitting
anything?

A. No.

Q. Did you hear doors open and close?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, there's no foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No.

Q. Did you hear any sound at all indicating his presence on the
property?

MR. BAKER: No foundation, he heard any sound from where he ever was.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You were in your room this entire time that
we've been talking about, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you hear or see any activity in the backyard?

A. No.

Q. And you could see up into Mr. Simpson's room and the light was on?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you see or hear anything up there?

A. No.

Q. Any TV flashing?

A. No.

Q. Mr. Simpson had been to your room how many times that evening?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Twice.

Q. Had he -- Did he come to your room again?

A. No.

Q. Now, when you had the conversation with Mr. Simpson about, you
know, the sounds that you heard, did Mr. Simpson tell you to call the
police?

A. No.

Q. Did he tell you to call Westec?

A. No.

Q. Did he tell you to talk to Arnelle when she came home, Arnelle, his
daughter, to make sure that she was safe?

A. No.

Q. Did he say anything to you about what you should do in regard to
those noises?

A. No.

Q. When you came back from McDonald's with Mr. Simpson, do you recall
what he was wearing?

A. I believe it was the same outfit, the dark sweat suit.

Q. After Mr. Simpson and the limousine driver left the property, what
did you do?

A. I went right to my room.

Q. What did you do?

A. I called up Rachel.

Q. And you talked to her for awhile?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And then what happened?

A. Then there's a period during our conversation where I have call
waiting, and the call waiting beep happened, and the call waiting -- I
said, Rachel, I've got another call. So I got the call and it was O.J.
and he said, I didn't alarm the house, did --

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me. Didn't alarm the house?

Q. What did you say?

A. I went, oh, I didn't know the alarm code.

Q. What did he say?

A. He said, well, here's the alarm code, this is what you do, and he
gave me the code and said, then the light will go, I believe red, that
means it's set.

Q. Did you write the code down?

A. Yes.

Q. And then what happened?

A. And then I got back on my other call and told Rachel, I'll call you
right back again.

Q. Okay. Now, has Mr. Simpson ever beeped you on your line before?

A. No.

Q. And other than what he did in the foyer minutes before when he left
the property, had he ever asked you to set the alarm?

A. No.

Q. What did you then do?

A. After I set the alarm?

Q. Yes.

A. Okay. So I set the alarm, I came back to the room, and I called
Rachel.

Q. Set the alarm. Where did you set the alarm?

A. I made the same exact -- shall I go up?

Q. Yes. Show the jury where the alarm pad was located.

A. Now, after I told Rachel, I went back up this way, came this way,
and I went right here, and it's right there by the door.

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

Q. Is it on the outside?

A. Yes.

Q. You did not have to enter the house?

A. No.

Q. And then you went back to your room?

A. Yes.

Q. And then ultimately you went to sleep?

A. Well, I talked for quite a bit yet.

Q. Okay. You may resume the witness stand.

Now, I want to turn to the next evening, Monday, June 13.

Were you at a friend's house?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And who is that friend, by the way?

A. Grant Cramer.

Q. At some point while you're at Grant Cramer's house, did you get a
phone call?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Who was it from?

A. I believe it was Howard Weitzman.

Q. Was anyone else on that call?

A. O.J.

Q. Mr. Simpson?

A. Correct.

Q. And tell us what Mr. Simpson and Mr. Weitzman said to you in that
call.

MR. BAKER: Objection, hearsay.

MR. PETROCELLI: These are admissions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: It can't be an admission to Mr. Weitzman, he cannot make
that admission.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. You may answer.

A. I believe, to the best of my recollection, there was going to be a
meeting they wanted me to go to, to talk to lawyers.

Q. Did they ask you any questions?

A. I think they asked me about the events of everything that happened.

Q. And you answered their questions?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, did you then leave Mr. Cramer's house?

A. At some time, yes, I did.

Q. Where did you go?

A. I went back to Simpson's house.

Q. By the way, did you know who Howard Weitzman was in that telephone
call?

A. I knew he was a lawyer. I didn't know what he looked like.

Q. Now, after you left Mr. Cramer's house, where did you go?

A. Back to the house, to Rockingham.

Q. Was this evening now?

A. Yes.

Q. Monday, June 13?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. And when you entered the house, what did you see?

A. It was full of media everywhere, and then I went into the house and
there was groups of people sitting in the living room area in front of
the TV.

Q. Inside the house?

A. Inside the house.

Q. There weren't media in the house?

A. No.

Q. You meant outside?

A. There was media outside, parked outside.

Q. Now, in the house what did you see?

A. Inside the house everybody was watching TV and shouting to the
events of the day of saying, oh -- making comment to the reporter's.

Q. You mean on television?

A. Television.

Q. They were shouting at the television.

Was Mr. Simpson there?

A. Yes.

Q. And what was he doing?

A. He was sitting in a chair watching it also.

Q. And did you notice anything about him?

A. Yes.

Q. What did you notice?

A. I noticed on his finger he had a tissue paper and there was blood
dripping -- blood seeping through.

Q. Now, did there come a time that evening that you had a conversation
with Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And how long after you got there did you have that conversation?

A. The time frame -- I don't know exactly how long. I'd -- you know,
I'm guessing 10 or so minutes.

Q. Where did that conversation occur?

A. In the kitchen.

Q. Who was present in the kitchen during that conversation?

A. I believe it was just us.

Q. Who is us?

A. O.J. and Kato.

Q. And tell me what was said.

A. He had said, you saw me go into the house after McDonald's, and I
had said, no, I didn't. He had said that I saw him walk into the house
from McDonald's.

Q. O.J.?

A. O.J. said that to me. He said, Kato, you saw me go into the house
from McDonald's.

Q. And what did you say?

A. I said, no, I didn't.

Q. Why did you say that?

A. Because I didn't.

Q. Now, the next day, on June 14, Tuesday, were you interviewed by any
lawyers?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And who were the lawyers who interviewed you?

A. I was interviewed by Skip Taft and Robert Shapiro.

Q. Mr. Shapiro here in the courtroom today?

A. Right there.

Q. And did Mr. Shapiro ask you what time you heard the noises?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. And what did you tell Mr. Shapiro?

A. In my interview I said, I heard it between 10:40 and 10:50.

Q. Was that based on looking at a watch or a clock?

A. No.

Q. Was it an estimate?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. Was that the first time you'd been interviewed by lawyers?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. And did you understand Mr. Shapiro was the lawyer for Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes, I did.

MR. PETROCELLI: No further questions, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Cross-examine.

THE CLERK: For the record, the last exhibit was Defense Exhibit 899. I
just wanted to put on the record that it's marked by reference to case
number BA097211.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'd like to move all the exhibits I marked
into evidence.

For the record, they are numbers 181, 194, 143, 114, 188, 189, 199,
2197, and 899.

MR. LEONARD: That doesn't include the one chart we were speaking about
that's inaccurate or does it?

MR. PETROCELLI: It does.

MR. LEONARD: We would object to that.

THE CLERK: That's 199?

MR. PETROCELLI: That's 199.

THE COURT: Okay, 199 is not received. Everything else is.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 181.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 194.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 143.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 114.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 188.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 189.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 2197.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs Exhibit No. 899.)

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER:

Q. Good morning, sir.

A. Morning.

Q. Now, Mr. Kaelin, you are an actor, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Kind of a want-to-be actor, would that be fair?

A. I studied. I don't know.

Q. Okay. And you have your attorney here in the courtroom?

A. Yes.

Q. Is your agent here?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Now, in terms of -- in terms of your involvement in the O.J.
Simpson case, you were interviewed on June 13, 1994 by a couple police
officers, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You were interviewed by Mr. Shapiro and Skip Taft on the 14th,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You testified at the preliminary hearing under penalty of perjury
in June of 1994, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You testified at the preliminary hearing under penalty of perjury
in July of 1994, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you testified at the criminal trial under penalty of perjury in
-- was it February of 1994?

MR. LEONARD: '95.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) '95, I'm sorry.

You testified in 1995 in the criminal trial, true?

A. Correct.

Q. All right. Now, you had -- before your deposition was given in this
case, also under penalty of perjury, you spent what, eight, nine hours
with Mr. Petrocelli?

A. Correct.

Q. And after that deposition was taken and before you got on the
witness stand today, you spent how many more hours, about, with Mr.
Petrocelli?

A. I spent three and a half hours on Sunday, and an hour, probably,
today.

Q. And you went over and had breakfast with Mr. Medvene this morning
across the street?

A. I had to.

Q. I hope they paid.

A. I think so.

Q. In terms of your testimony, you testified -- and I want to get to
one area, then we'll go back and try to go through it chronologically.

You testified about Mr. Simpson, after he got back from the recital,
talking about Nicole wearing tight fitting dresses. Remember that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. And you told the grand jury in June, within two weeks of the
murders occurring, that Mr. Simpson was joking, correct, when he was
talking about the dresses?

A. If I could see it. I said that.

Q. Well, do you have a recollection of that, sir?

A. I don't right now, no.

MR. BAKER: Bring up, please, page 59, line 24 through page 60, line --
see right there.

(Transcript page displayed on TV screen.)

"Q. And he was making reference to tight dresses or outfits?

And you answer, dresses, yeah.

"Did he seem angry when he said that?

"A. No."

Pull it over to page 60.

MR. P. BAKER: What line?

MR. BAKER: Keep going. I'm sorry. Page 60, lines 1 through 15. Maybe
that's --

MR. PETROCELLI: Now, Your Honor, I don't mind this for ease of
convenience, he ought to go to a specific place rather than scrolling
through this transcript. It's not proper.

THE COURT: If you could direct your operator to go to a particular
location without scrolling.

MR. BAKER: My technical operator hasn't followed my directions for the
last 28 years.

(Laughter)

MR. BAKER: Did you go to page 60? Just bring it down. Yeah. Line 1.

(Transcript displayed on TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You just testified --

MR. BAKER: It'd be there, when he was talking about "good-naturedly."
Is that 59? Yeah, I'm sorry. Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, when she's going to be older, joking, like
wearing tight fitting clothes, good-naturedly, like a grandma; that's
what you were talking about Mr. Simpson in his conversation with you
on the -- on June 12 after he had been to the recital, correct?

A. That he said that, yes.

Q. And then when you say good-naturedly, that's what he was acting
like --

"A. Yes.

"Was he laughing?

"Yeah, joking and laughing."

Q. Okay. Now, that was your testimony in June of 1994, about that
tight dress incident, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. BAKER: Now, bring up the preliminary hearing, page 88, lines 23 to
28.

You can put it on the Elmo if you want.

(Transcript displayed on Elmo.)

MR. BAKER: It starts, I think, at 13, 14 and 15, they were wearing
tight outfits.

Okay. Pull it up a little further so we go down to the end.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, he was kind of -- his tone was not angry, he
was kind of matter of fact.

That's what you told the jury under penalty of perjury when you had
your preliminary hearing testimony, correct?

THE COURT: I don't think there was any jury.

MR. BAKER: I apologize. Preliminary hearing.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) That's what you told at the preliminary hearing?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Okay. Now, pull up, please, his depo transcript or trial
transcript in the criminal trial, page 20337 or just 2000 is fine.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can I have a page and line reference, Mr. Baker,
please.

MR. BAKER: I don't have a line reference.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, give me a chance -- what's the page.

MR. BAKER: 2,000 -- 20,000, I'm sorry.

Could you pull it up a little farther.

Got a little technical glitch.

Put that one on.

(Indicating to Elmo.)

THE COURT: What page is that?

MR. P. BAKER: 20337.

MR. BAKER: Lines 15 through 28.

MR. PETROCELLI: What page is that?

MR. BAKER: This is 20,337.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And now, you testified that he was upset, he made a
point to say tight dresses. That, I mentioned before, that was your
testimony at the criminal trial, correct?

A. Yeah. I don't know what's before that, if it's about the comment
about Sydney or not. I think he was more upset about --

Q. Well, as a matter of fact, you never mentioned the hardball comment
about Sydney in the preliminary hearing or when your testimony was
before the grand jury, did you, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object, Your Honor. If he has a prior inconsistent
statement, he can show it to him, but we don't know what was asked,
and I don't think --

MR. BAKER: I object --

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You never mentioned one thing about Mr. Simpson and
any purported comments from Nicole Brown Simpson about playing
hardball with Sydney in the grand jury hearing or in the preliminary
hearing, did you, sir?

A. No.

Q. And you had -- when you were talking about going in the front door,
remember that, on the night of the 12th when O.J. Simpson was coming
back with you from getting a hamburger -- do you remember that?

A. Going into the -- towards the nook area?

Q. Yeah.

A. Yeah.

Q. And you recall that on the 13th of June about 1:30 you had your
statement taken by Officers Carr and Tippin, remember that?

A. I remember those guys, yeah.

Q. And that was within a couple hours of this incident of coming back
from -- I mean it was within 15 hours or so of this incident of coming
back from McDonald's, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you say the following?

MR. BAKER: And I need a new number on this.

THE CLERK: 2198.

MR. LEONARD: 2198.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

(The instrument herein described as Copy of Brian Kaelin's statement
of 6/13/94 was marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No.
2198.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You did give your statement to Tippin and Carr June
13, 1994 at 1330 hours, that is 1:30 in the afternoon, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you were born on March 9, 1959 correct?

A. Correct.

Q. All right.

And you were born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you told the officers at that time, that you drove to
McDonald's and O.J. ate in the car, they ordered through the
drive-through, ordered from -- it says MA male Hispanic, female
Hispanic gave them the food; is that correct? Male Hispanic and female
Hispanic?

A. Pretty sure.

MR. PETROCELLI: I object to the reading of this report. This is a
hearsay document. It's not his report. He can show it to him to
refresh his recollection, but he can't read a report to him prepared
by somebody else.

MR. BAKER: This is a report made in the ordinary course of business.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) O.J. ordered double meat hamburger, fries, no drink,
witness ordered chicken sandwich meal, witness paid for food, O.J. ate
while driving, they returned to O.J.'s house, witness entered through
side of the house into his room, O.J. entered through front.

Did you tell them that about 15 hours after you had gone to
McDonald's, Mr. Kaelin?

A. Best of my recollection, no. I think they're assuming that.

Q. The rest of it you told them that's the only thing in the paragraph
I read to you you didn't tell them, right.

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Is there anything else that I read to you, sir, that
you say you didn't tell the police?

A. I don't know.

Q. All right. Now, let's go back -- you, in 1992, I guess were in
Aspen, Colorado where you first met Nicole Brown Simpson; is that
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you met her with a friend of yours, and what's his name?

A. Grant Cramer.

Q. And Mr. Cramer and you went to a party and met her there, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And subsequently, when you returned to Los Angeles, she invited you
and Mr. Grant Cramer to a party at her house on Gretna Green, true?

A. True.

Q. And when you were at that house on Gretna Green you noticed the
back house, did you not?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And then you invited yourself to be a tenant in the back house to
Ms. Nicole Brown Simpson, did you not?

A. No. There was talk about it -- the guest house.

Q. And in any event, sir, you -- you moved in almost immediately after
that party into the back house at Gretna Green, correct?

A. I think two weeks or so.

Q. Okay. And you lived at that house from January of 1993 to January
of 1994, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And during that period of time, you met O.J. Simpson, did you not?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And you became kind of a confidante of Nicole Brown Simpson, didn't
you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Beyond the scope, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. She told me things, yes.

Q. And she told you things, for example, in February or March of 1993,
you would have these little conversations with her, would you not?

A. Yeah. I don't know the exact dates but we had conversations.

Q. And she indicated to you by March of 1993 that she wanted to get
back and remarry O.J. Simpson, didn't she?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object as beyond the scope and can I have
a continuing objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. It was back and forth.

Q. She told you she wanted to remarry O.J. Simpson and the best times
of her life was when she was with O.J., isn't that true?

A. I think it was that good time and bad times.

Q. Did she not tell you that the best times of her life were with O.J.
Simpson; yes or no, sir?

A. I mean the conversations -- there were times she said that, yes,
sir.

Q. Okay. Thank you.

Now, in terms of Mr. Simpson, he would come over in his Bronco and
pick up the kids, would he not?

A. At Gretna Green?

Q. Yes.

A. Yeah. Yes.

Q. And you saw him do that, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you saw him go over to Gretna Green and pick up -- by the way,
did it ever -- were you -- do you have any thoughts why they named the
dog after you?

A. No, I was confused.

Q. Okay. Mr. Simpson would come over and --

A. What do you mean by that? No --

Q. Did you think that was a compliment -- well, never mind.

Did Mr. Simpson come over and pick up the dog and take the dog and the
kids at times?

A. I don't remember offhand.

Q. Well --

A. The kids for sure.

Q. Pardon?

A. The kids for sure.

Q. And he would -- while you lived at Rockingham, you saw Chachi over
at Rockingham on occasion as well as Kato, the dog, at Rockingham?

A. I seen Kato there maybe once or twice the entire time.

THE COURT: Mr. Baker, come back at 1:30.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinions.

Media in the audience, you're ordered not to approach this witness
until this witness has completed his testimony.

This witness is ordered not to speak to the media until this case --
testimony is completed.

Mr. Baker, Mr. Petrocelli.

THE BAILIFF: Judge is still on the bench. Quiet, please.

THE COURT: Rest of you leave.

(A bench conference was held which was not reported.)

(At 11:57 A.M. a recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)

SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1996
1:31 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE COURT: You may resume.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

BRIAN KAELIN, the witness on the stand at the time of the luncheon
recess, having been previously duly sworn, was examined and testified
further as follows:

CROSS-EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. BAKER:

Q. Now, Mr. Kaelin, when we broke for lunch, we were talking about the
time period when you still lived at Gretna Green, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And when you -- when you were living there, you wanted Nicole and
O.J. Simpson to reconcile, to get back together, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you expressed that opinion to Mr. Simpson, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that was your feeling the whole time that you lived at Gretna
Green; that Mr. Simpson and Nicole Brown Simpson should reconcile and
remarry, right?

A. I said off and on that -- that if they couldn't get together, they
should possibly separate for six months. I mentioned that a few times.
If it doesn't work after that, divorce, but if it does work, get back
together.

Q. Now, you were present at the dispute that took place on October 25,
1993, at least for part of it, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you had Mr. Simpson with you in the back house where you
resided, true?

A. For part of it, right.

Q. And he never, obviously, threatened you or anyone else during that
period of time, did he?

A. No. There was myself back there and the police, I guess, in the
guest house back there.

Q. For part of the time before -- before the police got there, you
were with him by yourself, correct?

A. Never in the guest house, but outside.

Q. All right.

And he never threatened anyone, did he, with phys -- anything
physical, did he, sir?

A. There was no physical harm.

Q. Now, towards the end of December of 1993, you were told by Nicole
that you would have to move out and find your own place, correct?

A. Say it again.

Q. In December of 1993, you were told by Nicole, or you were -- you
had conversations and you knew you had to move out of the back house
of Gretna Green, correct?

A. On and off. It was one week yes, one week no.

Q. And you had first thought you were going to be able to move into
Bundy, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had a conversation with O.J. Simpson about whether or not
you should move into Bundy, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that conversation went to the issue of whether or not he felt
it would be good for the kids to have a young man of your age living
with his ex-wife and his children, true?

A. Inside the same house, correct.

Q. And before January of 1994, in the year that you lived at 325 South
Gretna Green, you paid some rent to Nicole; at other times, you took
kind of credit for babysitting and that sort of thing, didn't you?

A. For babysitting, yes.

Q. And your basic rent was basically in the neighborhood of four, five
hundred a month, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And O.J. Simpson indicated to you that since he didn't want you to
be living in the house with his ex-wife and his children, that you
could live in the guest house at Rockingham, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And he wouldn't charge you any rent, true?

A. True.

Q. And so you were aware, before you ever moved into the house at --
the guest house at 360 North Rockingham, that Nicole Brown Simpson did
not want you to live there; isn't that true?

A. She told me to -- she had a conversation with O.J. about it.

Q. You were aware before you ever moved into 360 North Rockingham,
that Nicole Brown Simpson did not want you to move into the guest
house at O.J.'s house, true?

A. I don't think it's true.

Q. All right.

Let me go back and ask you a couple of things.

A. Okay.

Q. In your -- from December of 1992, when you first met Nicole, she
had introduced you, obviously, to O.J. Simpson, correct?

A. At one point, yes.

Q. She had introduced you to Marcus Allen, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You had gone on a date with Nicole, Marcus and a friend of yours,
had you not?

A. Correct.

Q. You had actually -- I think you indicated in examination by Mr.
Petrocelli, you never socialized with O.J.

You and your kids -- you and your son actually went out with O.J. and
his kids, did you not?

A. My daughter.

Q. Daughter. I'm sorry.

A. With Sydney and Justin, yes.

Q. So you did at least socialize at some time with him before June 12,
1994?

A. At one time, yes.

Q. Relative to the issue, sir, of you moving into 360 North
Rockingham, you --

MR. BAKER: Would you pull that up on the Elmo.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You were certainly aware that Nicole had requested
you not to move into the guest house; yes or no?

A. Yes and no. Yes and no. It was mixed.

I think -- can I explain?

Q. Sure. Go ahead.

A. There was a point where she said, he's -- he manipulated you. He
got you to go to his house.

Q. That was before -- that was after you moved in, was it not?

A. That was during that January when I moved in.

Q. But you were aware that if you moved in, the relationship that
Nicole Brown Simpson and you had would certainly decline, correct?

A. I didn't know it would decline, but it did decline, yes.

Q. As a matter of fact, you knew it was going to decline, and you
forsook Nicole Brown Simpson for $500 a month rent?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Pull that up.

MR. PETROCELLI: I would like page references before he starts.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: 496, lines 7 through 9.

No. Wait till he's had a chance to look at it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. Thanks.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And you testified:

Question: "And when you went to Mr. Simpson's house, you didn't have
to pay rent at all, true?

"A. Yes."

"So it was a better deal and you forsook Ms. Simpson for $500 a month,
right?"

And your answer was yes; isn't that true sir?

A. That's what I say there, yes.

Q. That is true; you forsook Nicole Brown Simpson for $500 a month,
after she had met you in Aspen and given you a place to live for
basically one year, true?

A. I guess I didn't interpret the "forsook" for that -- the negative
connotation; but yes, I lived at O.J.'s for free.

Q. And Nicole wouldn't come over if you were at O.J.'s correct?

A. No, she came by.

Q. And asked you to leave, for example, if in fact the kids were going
to swim; isn't that true?

A. Sometimes, yes.

Q. Sometimes? Every time; isn't that correct?

A. Not if my daughter was there.

Q. Now, you and Nicole never were friends after you moved into O.J.'s
house on January -- first week of January of 1994, correct?

A. I think --

Q. Correct?

A. -- I was still a friend.

Q. And she wouldn't talk to you, true?

A. Off and on, yes.

Q. Now, after you got to Mr. Simpson's house and lived in his guest
house (indicating to Exhibit 116 with overlay), you weren't great pals
with O.J. Simpson, were you?

A. Correct.

Q. But you shared some conversation -- some conversations and some
social discourse with him, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in terms of where your room was over in the guest wing of the
home --

A. Can I go down there? (Pointing to Exhibit 116 with overlay.)

Q. Now, in the area where your place is -- your room was, that's about
what, three feet below the pool decking area right adjacent to it, and
these are steps that lead up to it, correct?

A. Right. Cement here and steps.

Q. All right.

And then there is a -- an office that is right adjacent to the room
that you used, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And then this is a little hallway with steps, and there's a pool
table in there, correct?

A. Right, into the house.

Q. Okay.

Now, that -- that's a pretty substantial home in terms of
construction, is it not, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. That house is --

Well, let me ask you this question.

Mr. Petrocelli asked you a few questions concerning noise.

Now, you couldn't hear what went on in O.J. Simpson's house when you
were in your room, normally, could you?

A. No. I -- It was -- I could hear a phone ring if it kept ringing and
ringing, but I couldn't hear any verbal --

Q. The phone rang in the bar area?

A. Correct.

Q. In the bar area.

And Mr. Simpson's home is in an area right in here where I've drawn
this little -- it should be a semicircle, but it's not.

MR. P. BAKER: The overlay will be 2199.

(The instrument herein referred to as Overlay to Plaintiffs' Exhibit
116, diagram entitled 360 N. Rockingham Avenue, was marked for
identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2199.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Were you in his house enough to remember where the
bar area was?

A. Um-hum. It was --

Q. And Mr. Simpson didn't ask your permission to go out and hit golf
balls on his front lawn, did he?

A. No.

Q. And you normally, when you were there, stayed back in your room,
did you not, sir?

A. True.

Q. And he didn't check with you if he was going to have people in or
if he wasn't going to have people in, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. In other words, you had a separate life from Mr. Simpson when he
was actually in residence at 360 North Rockingham; you would agree
with that?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mr. Simpson, when you moved in, was basically not in that
house, almost virtually never, until in May of 1996; isn't that true?

A. Pretty much so, yeah.

Q. So, I mean, when Mr. Petrocelli asked you the first time he ever --
second time he ever came to your house -- he was in New York the first
couple of months, and then he was in Puerto Rico, shooting a film, all
the month of April; isn't that true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object, Your Honor, because it misstates the record.
No evidence of that.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Isn't it true he was in Puerto Rico virtually the
whole month of April, shooting a film.

A. He was filming. I don't know -- I don't remember the exact dates.

Q. You were aware he wasn't around that house when you first moved in;
he was back in New York, working for NBC for the pro football season,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. So you didn't have many chances for any social intercourse with
O.J. Simpson until May of 1996; isn't that true?

MR. BLASIER: '94.

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry. '94.

THE WITNESS: For some of it, yes.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in terms of your going in and out of the
Rockingham address, you used to park over on Ashford Street, then you
would come in -- the one gate was rigged so you could push it open,
correct?

A. Right. You got to move it yourself.

Q. And that was the left gate as you faced the gate from Ashford?

A. Right, the Ashford side.

Q. Left gate as you face the gate from Ashford?

A. Right.

Q. Correct. Right? Left?

A. You know, the gate on Ashford.

Q. At any rate.

(Laughter.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You would normally park your car in the area where
my pen is, walk in, push the gate open, walk down the path, walk
around, and not disturb anybody in the house, true?

A. True.

Q. Okay.

Now, in terms of your relationship with Mr. Simpson, at times you'd
come in and he's in the area where the bar is; that's a den area, is
it not, family-room area?

A. Where the bar area is?

Q. Yeah.

A. Well, where the TV is.

Q. Okay.

Now, on this wall where I'm putting an X, there is a television built
into the wall, is there not?

A. Yes.

Then there's sofas over in here.

THE WITNESS: I need a different marker.

MR. PETROCELLI: I assume you're referring to the first floor, Mr.
Baker.

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry.

MR. PETROCELLI: First floor, right.

MR. BAKER: I am. I am. Thank you.

(Mr. Baker marks on overlay, Defendants' Exhibit 2199.)

Q. Would it be accurate to say there are sofas that go like this, or
cocktail table or some table in the middle?

A. Right.

Q. Then there are chairs that go around the bar area, true?

A. True.

Q. And then as you go, there's a dining room behind here, and then a
kitchen goes all the way here, and -- well, I can't draw it very well.

A. Somewhat, right.

Q. Okay.

I'm not very good at this.

In any event, sir, you would, at times, come in and he'd be sitting
there on the sofa, watching television, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had some interchange with him during the times that he was
doing that, true?

A. If he called me in, yes.

Q. And now, you had met Marcus Allen, in fact, gone out on a social
engagement with him?

A. Once, right.

Q. And O.J. Simpson was not jealous of Marcus Allen, was he.

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. Lack of foundation; no personal knowledge.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You had a conversation with O.J. Simpson about
Marcus Allen, and he indicated to you he didn't mind Nicole doing
whatever Nicole did with Marcus Allen; isn't that true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. Hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Relative to my client saying that to him?

THE COURT: Yeah, self-serving hearsay.

MR. BAKER: It's a leading question, Your Honor but it's an admission.

THE COURT: It's an admission if it's offered by an adverse party.

It's a self-serving admission when offered by your own side.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) In any event, you never heard Mr. Simpson indicate
that he was jealous of anything Nicole did; isn't that true.

MR. PETROCELLI: Same objection, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in May of 1994, you became aware -- well,
strike that.

Did you ever become aware that Mr. Simpson and Nicole Brown Simpson
had ceased their reconciliation period?

A. At some point, yes.

Q. That was in May of 1994, was it not?

A. I think -- I think so.

Q. You learned that from conversations you had with O.J. Simpson,
true?

A. I think it was O.J. Simpson and Cora Fischman.

Q. And Mr. Simpson was not mad, upset, or distraught about that when
he told you, was he?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. Hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I -- I don't know. I can't answer that.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Well, have you ever testified before that Mr.
Simpson was not jealous about Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. If you'd show me --

Q. Do you have a recollection of ever testifying before that he was
not jealous, sir?

A. I think I said possibly.

It was off and on. They were together and not together.

Q. Now, in terms of May of 1994, you were aware that O.J. Simpson,
after they had broken up, went over and took care of Nicole, correct,
when she was ill?

A. Correct.

Q. And he didn't -- through any conversations you had with him, he
didn't voice any animosity towards Nicole Brown Simpson, did he, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. Self-serving hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Can you pull up 515, lines 2 --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Mr. Baker?

MR. BAKER: 515 of his depo.

MR. PETROCELLI: Deposition, okay.

What line, Mr. Baker?

MR. BAKER: It's going to start on 512.

(Deposition transcript displayed on TV screen.)

THE WITNESS: This is from?

MR. BAKER: Your deposition.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object on hearsay grounds, Your Honor,
for this testimony.

MR. BAKER: 512, lines 24 through 13 of 513, Phil.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's also irrelevant.

THE COURT: What line?

MR. BAKER: 512 through line 16 -- through 513, line 13.

THE COURT: 16 starts in the middle of a sentence. So if he's --

MR. PETROCELLI: That's what I have, too.

What's the question, the first question, Mr. Baker?

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you testify in the grand jury?

MR. PETROCELLI: That's a different reference. That's 512, line 16,
Your Honor.

THE COURT: Line 16 starts with that.

MR. BAKER: Let me read from the deposition.

MR. PETROCELLI: Object to this; he can't just read from the
depositions. It's got to be a foundation for it, Your Honor. There has
to be a prior inconsistent statement; otherwise, it's hearsay.

THE COURT: What's the question preceding this?

Okay. Objection sustained.

There's no question that was asked that is being refreshed or
impeached.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Mr. Kaelin?

A. Yes?

Q. Your state of mind, when you testified before the grand jury in
June of 1994, was that O.J. Simpson was not jealous of Nicole Brown
Simpson dating --

MR. PETROCELLI: Object.

MR. BAKER: -- correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object. His state of mind is irrelevant. There's no
basis to read in prior testimony. It's hearsay. It's irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: On what ground, Your Honor?

THE COURT: What does this witness's state of mind have to do with
anything? Doesn't have anything . . .

MR. BAKER: Has to do with this purported motive --

THE COURT: Mr. Kaelin has no motive --

MR. BAKER: -- purported motive of my client, Your Honor. And this man
was around him and testified to it.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't think it has anything to do with Mr. Simpson's
conduct, his state of mind, Your Honor.

Mr. Baker objected in my examination --

MR. BAKER: I'd like to be heard.

THE COURT: I'm going to overrule it. You offered evidence as to his
state of mind, and I'll permit examination at this point.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, you had communication with Nicole Brown Simpson
throughout the year of 1993, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you had some communication with O.J. Simpson in 1994, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And your state of mind -- and you testified to the grand jury in
June of 1994, within two weeks of these murders, that O.J. Simpson was
not jealous of Nicole Brown Simpson dating Marcus Allen or anybody
else; isn't that true?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object on relevance grounds, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I didn't know anything that was going on between the two.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) I didn't ask you what you knew, sir; I asked you
what you testified to.

A. I -- I -- if I could see it -- I don't remember.

Q. All right.

MR. BAKER: May I now read the --

THE COURT: You may.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading:)

"Q. Did you testify at the grand jury proceeding that O.J. Simpson
didn't care whether or not Nicole Brown Simpson was dating or not?

"A. Yes.

"Q. And did you think that was a sign of jealousy or lack of jealousy?

"A. I don't know. I didn't know in someone's mind.

"Q. Did you testify at the preliminary hearing that O.J. Simpson
didn't care whether Nicole Brown Simpson dated anybody, including
Marcus Allen?

"A. Yes. That was going on. I mean, they were dating at both ends, and
it seemed like it was okay for them to date.

"Q. And it certainly didn't bother O.J., did it? "

MR. PETROCELLI: Object.

MR. BAKER: "Objection."

"Q. As far as you are aware, Mr. Kaelin?

"A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Same objection.

BY MR. BAKER: (Reading:)

"Q. It did or did not bother O.J. Simpson?

"A. It didn't."

Now, that's what you testified to in your deposition, is it not, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And I take it you were under penalty of perjury in that testimony
as to your truthful opinion at that time, correct?

A. My opinion, yes.

Q. And I take it that was your opinion when you testified at the grand
jury, in the preliminary hearing, true?

A. True.

Q. All right.

Now, in terms of your living at the house, and in terms of your access
to that house, now, you didn't have a key to that house, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't have the alarm code, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't have access to the interior of that house unless you
were invited in, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, you were not invited into that house in 1994 except for how
many times?

A. In 1994?

Q. Yeah.

A. When I was living there?

Q. Yes, sir.

A. I don't know.

Q. Less than five?

A. Five to seven. I can't give you an exact number.

Q. And during the time that you were living there, did Mr. Simpson
ever invite you to go upstairs?

A. I think once.

Q. Look around to see what was up there?

A. I think once.

Q. And other than that, you weren't in that house; isn't that true,
sir?

A. Other than those -- those times?

Q. Yes.

A. Correct.

Q. Now, in terms of Mr. Simpson's home, you had become aware from just
having the kids over and playing hide and seek with your daughter and
Mr. Simpson's kids, that there was really no way out around the east
side of the guest quarters, correct?

A. Correct. I mean, you could get by.

Q. You'd have to jump?

A. Yeah, or -- jump or crawl; I don't know which one.

Q. And this air conditioner that is -- that's -- that stuck out in
your room, that was through the wall and stuck out about chest height,
did it not?

A. I think that's about right.

Q. And if it -- that was the lower portion. And the upper portion
would be about where my nose is, correct?

A. Approximately, yeah.

Q. And the walls to that house were -- of the guest quarters were, in
your opinion, very sturdily built, true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: You know, I don't know what it was in the back, if it was
cement or -- I don't know what it's called.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you ever take your fist and hit that wall behind
that bed at all, sir?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever -- let me ask you: In terms of your ingress and egress
-- and let's go to June 11, 1994, now, by June 11, 1994, you say you
were watching television with O.J. Simpson, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you mentioned something about "The World Of Garp?"

A. Correct.

Q. Now, you first mentioned that in an interview that you did with
Mark Elliott on December 27, 1994, some six or so months after the
killings, true?

A. I guess.

Q. You had never mentioned that in any conversations you had with Mr.
Shapiro, with any of the D.A.'s at the grand jury or at the
preliminary hearing; isn't that true?

A. I guess so. I was never asked anything.

Q. Well, when you were having this interview with Mark Elliott, this
is when you were contemplating putting out a book and making a few
bucks relative to your involvement in the O.J. Simpson matter; isn't
that true?

A. To possibly get a book, right.

Q. And in fact, you'd even signed a contract before you came up with
this "World of Garp" story; that had never surfaced in any of the
prior interviews; isn't that correct, sir?

A. No, I didn't sign any contract.

Q. You had negotiated a contract but didn't sign it?

A. With Mark Elliott.

Q. And this was really you, in an attempt testimony of that particular
testimony about the World of Garp, attempting to cash in on your 15
minutes of fame, so to speak, wasn't it, sir?

A. No.

Q. Let me ask you: You had heard about this incident with this
gentleman named Keith before you ever moved into O.J. Simpson's house,
had you not?

A. I don't believe so. I -- it was part of the 911 call, and I didn't
make sense of it at that time.

Q. You had never heard about that from either the October 25 incident
or anything else; that went on at 325 South Gretna Green, correct?

A. What I can remember, no.

Q. And you heard O.J. Simpson -- and you were standing next to him
with the police there, when they were talking about that incident on
October 25, 1993; isn't that true, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: Question is vague as to what incident.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) The incident of oral sex in the living room of 325
South Gretna Green, with Ms. Simpson and this gentleman named Keith,
correct?

A. The police did come by. And when they came to my room, I sort of
excused myself, and I don't remember that happening.

I mean, it was dialogue with the police, but I --

Q. You tuned out of it?

A. It was -- I don't remember completely the incident. But I know they
came to my room and they asked who I was. And he said, he's okay, and
let them talk. And I went out towards the pool area.

Q. Now, on June 11, you related some conversations you had with Mr.
Simpson, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you talked about this incident in the movie, "The World
According To Garp," correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you have a clear recollection of that, right?

A. Of him telling me that story, yes.

Q. And that was kind of sensational, if you were going to do a book,
to put that in a book, something about oral sex. You thought that when
you gave the interview to Mark Elliott, didn't you?

A. No, sir.

Q. Now, by the time you gave the interview to Mark Elliott, how many
TV shows had you been on?

A. How many television shows?

I don't know.

You mean news shows?

Q. Anything where you agreed to go on the show.

A. What was the date you're talking about?

Q. It was December 27, 1994.

A. I don't think many. I don't know. If you can tell me . . .

Q. You have no recollection, right?

A. If you can show me, I would definitely have a recollection.

Q. You have no recollection in your own mind as to how many television
shows you had appeared on between the time of the murders and the time
you gave this interview to Mark Elliott, in preparation of selling a
book?

A. No.

Q. How many television shows have you been on to date, from the time
of the murders to the present time?

A. I don't know the exact number.

Q. Now, in terms of the conversation you say you had with Mr. Simpson
on the 11th --

A. Um-hum.

Q. -- what you can remember now is that one about "The World According
To Garp" and the related incident, and a conversation about Paula
Barbieri; and that's all, correct?

A. At that time on that Saturday?

Q. Yeah.

A. I think so.

Q. Isn't it true -- isn't it true, Mr. Kaelin, that when Mr. Simpson
was talking about a white picket fence, he was talking about what Ms.
Barbieri wanted, as contrasted to him?

A. No; that's what he wanted.

Q. Isn't it true she wanted a white picket fence and kids, and Mr.
Simpson had said he had two families and he didn't desire anymore
kids, and that's why he thought maybe Paula wasn't the one for him?

Isn't that the conversation you had?

A. He said he wanted the white picket fence, and he also mentioned a
conversation that, yes, he didn't want anymore kids.

Q. Now, do you have any other memories of any conversation with him on
June 11, 1994?

A. There was -- he was going to some Israeli dinner. I remember that
being part of the conversation.

Q. What did he tell you about that?

A. It was a black-tie event.

Q. What did he tell you about that?

A. That he didn't really want to go to it.

Q. That's all he said about it?

A. It was a charity event.

Q. You watched a playoff game on -- the playoff of the NBA basketball,
did you not?

A. Yes, in my room.

Q. You watched part of it with him, didn't you?

A. I don't remember if I did.

Q. You had a conversation about basketball, didn't you?

A. Yes. I think I told him what the score of the game -- what it was.

Q. And then you didn't see him after you left his place until 2
o'clock the next morning -- the next afternoon, correct?

A. Approximately.

Q. And that wasn't unusual, was it?

I mean, he didn't communicate with him -- you didn't communicate with
him?

A. Correct.

Q. And so the next morning at 2:00 -- or afternoon, rather, at
approximately 2 o'clock in the afternoon, you were invited into his
kitchen nook, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, did you seek an invitation into his kitchen nook?

A. No.

Q. Mr. Simpson was sitting in his kitchen nook when you were invited
in?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, his kitchen nook is in the area -- well, let's just put a "K"
and an "N" where I put the "K" and the "N" -- correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And there's a television set on the south wall, is there not?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mr. Simpson was watching television when he invited you in?

A. I think it was on. I'm not 100 percent positive. I think the TV was
on.

Q. And you came in your usual method, through the driveway and out the
pathway, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And there's no way Mr. Simpson could have seen you; isn't that
true?

A. No. I think he did see me, because when you come in, if I saw the
TV on in that area, I could have walked by and seen who it was. He
would have said "Kato," and invited me in.

Q. And so you had no business going up to the kitchen nook, otherwise,
to try to get a kitchen -- to get into Mr. Simpson's house, to try to
have a chat with him; isn't that true?

A. To say hi.

Q. Now, after you got in the kitchen nook at approximately 2 o'clock
in the afternoon, was there another white picket fence conversation?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. So we had two days of white picket fences, right?

A. Right.

The other white picket fence was to Traci Adell.

Q. Now, you had -- by the time that you had your deposition taken in
1996, you had testified at the preliminary hearing, you'd given an
interview to the D.A., you testified at the grand jury, you'd been on
Larry King Live, you'd been on innumerable television shows, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And not one time -- not one time did you ever mention one word
about the IRS until you had spent eight and a half hours with Mr.
Petrocelli; isn't that true, sir?

A. I don't know if I said it before that or not.

Q. And isn't it true that you never mentioned one thing about this
alleged hardball with Sydney until you spent eight and a half hours
with Mr. Petrocelli?

A. I don't believe so. I think I said it before that.

Q. And isn't it also true that you never mentioned one thing about the
thumping at 10:50?

You spent at least eight and a half hours with Mr. Petrocelli?

A. No. I said that in my first interview.

Q. You said that in your first interview, when you -- when you thought
you got back from McDonald's at 10 o'clock, not 9:37; isn't that true?

A. I think in all my interviews, I've always had an approximate of
time.

Q. Isn't it true when you said -- the only time you ever said 10:50,
other than in this courtroom, is when you were being interviewed by
Mr. Shapiro, and you said 10:50, and you believed that you got back
from McDonald's at 10 o'clock? True?

A. I don't think so. I think, Mr. Baker, what it was, I always had --
I had no time on me; I didn't have a watch; I wasn't keeping time. So
it was always approximate when I said that.

Q. We'll get back to that.

A. Okay.

Q. In terms of your conversation on the afternoon of the 12th with Mr.
Simpson, how long did you talk to him?

A. My first conversation?

Maybe a half-hour. I can't give you an approximate amount of time
again.

Q. And the only thing you remember is this purported IRS and Sydney
hardball, or Sydney hardball was afterwards?

A. I remember the calendar section I was reading; that he was making
phone calls.

Q. The only thing that you remember from the afternoon conversation
with O.J. Simpson was this issue about the IRS that you have now come
to testify to, correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection to -- now it's argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) The only thing you can recall is mentioning
something about the IRS that Mr. Simpson had allegedly mentioned to
you on June 12, 1994, that you have not mentioned before your
deposition, correct?

A. I said it during that -- he said it during that afternoon, correct.

Q. And by the way, I take it, sir, that from all of the time that
you've testified, and from all of the media reports relative to this,
the facts surrounding the murders and your involvement therein, that
you have a clear recollection of everything you did on June 12 as it
relates to these cases, true?

A. No, not everything.

Q. And, in fact, your memory is somewhat confused as to what you know
and what you lived and what you saw on television; isn't that true?

A. I did see media reports.

Q. In terms of your then next encounter with Mr. Simpson, it was after
Mr. Simpson had returned from the recital, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And by the way, Mr. Simpson's demeanor that whole day is related to
-- as near as you could tell, was nothing unusual at all; isn't that
true?

A. I --

MR. PETROCELLI: You mean a day, time?

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) At any time on June 12, 1994, Mr. Simpson's demeanor
was not unusual, other than the fact that he was tired; isn't that
true?

A. He was tired, yes.

Q. He was not angry; he was not frustrated; he was not, in any way
that you could see, anything other than a little tired and normal,
correct?

A. Well, you mean during conversations --

Q. Correct.

A. Certain parts he'd be upset, but mostly he was tired because he was
talking about his red eye.

Q. And he told you on June 12, 1994, when you were in his house, that
he was going to catch a red eye and go to Chicago, didn't he?

A. He was going to Chicago on a red eye, yes.

Q. He told you that before he ever went to the recital, didn't he?

A. I don't know what part of the day it was, but he did tell me that,
yes.

Q. In fact, he told you that he had flown back from New York
specifically to go to Sydney's recital on Sunday evening and then had
to catch a red eye because he had to be in Chicago the next morning;
isn't that true, sir?

A. I don't remember the first part of him telling me that, of coming
back from New York.

Q. Now, he indicated to you that he was going to catch a red eye and
it was going to be a limousine that was going to pick him up. And you
knew that before 6 o'clock on June 12, 1994, true, sir?

A. I knew of the red eye.

Q. You knew he had a limo picking him up to take him to the airport
when he flew?

A. I knew there was a limo; I didn't know anything about the time
coming.

Q. Earlier in your testimony today, you didn't mean to imply to this
jury that you didn't have any idea that a limo was going to be at the
gate at some time on the evening of June 12, 1994, did you?

A. Well, what it was, when I say a limo before --

Q. Did you mean to imply when this jury --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

THE COURT: Excuse me.

MR. PETROCELLI: He was in the middle of an answer.

MR. BAKER: I wish he'd answer the question.

THE COURT: You may answer.

THE WITNESS: The answer would be normally, the limo driver would be
inside the gate. That was the first time I'd seen the limo driver
outside the gate.

Q. Had you seen the limos there at all between the months of May and
June, when Mr. Simpson was actually in residence at 360 North
Rockingham?

A. Yes, I think I've seen it maybe twice.

Q. And you didn't mean to imply to these ladies and gentlemen of the
jury, when you testified earlier today, that you didn't have any idea
a limo was going to come and pick up Mr. Simpson on June -- the
evening of June 12, 1994?

A. I assumed there would be a limo picking him up.

Q. Now, on the 12, after Mr. Simpson returned from the recital, it's
your testimony that you then were with him again for a period of time
before you went out and got in the jacuzzi, true?

A. That was the time of the recital. After the recital was -- I was in
the nook area before I entered the jacuzzi, correct.

Q. And then you chatted with him about the recital and he was very
happy about Sydney's performance, correct?

A. Right.

Q. And he indicated to you that he was going to pack, correct?

A. I believe so.

Q. And you went out and got into the jacuzzi, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you don't know where Mr. Simpson was?

A. When I was in the jacuzzi?

Q. Correct.

A. No.

Q. In fact, you didn't know where Mr. Simpson was about 99 percent of
the time you were on the grounds of 360 North Rockingham; that would
be true, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you didn't believe that you were Mr. Simpson's watch-keeper in
any way, shape, or form, did you?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't believe that he was your watch-keeper in any way,
shape, or form, did you?

A. No.

Q. Now, when you went out to the jacuzzi, after you got out of the
jacuzzi, about what time was that, sir?

A. I knew it was becoming dark. I was guessing it was about 8 o'clock
at that time of the year, 8:00 to 8:30.

Q. And we're in basically mid-June, right?

A. Right.

Q. All right.

And so after you got out of the jacuzzi, you went into your room, and
the next time you saw O.J. Simpson was when he was standing on the
deck area, looking down into your room, and yelled at you?

A. Correct.

Q. And at that time, he was asking you for some money because all he
had was $100 bills and needed change for the sky cap, true?

A. No. That's when he told me I left the jacuzzi jets on.

Q. He told you that he had just shut them off, did he not?

A. He did.

Q. Then he asked you for some money for a sky cap?

A. On a second trip, yes.

Q. And now, after he asked you for that, he told you he was going to
go get something to eat, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you testified this morning that he paused when you asked
whether or not you could go with him to get something to eat?

A. Yeah. It was -- when I asked, it wasn't -- it was a hesitation, and
it made me feel as if I'm inviting myself, I shouldn't be coming
along.

Q. Now, you never mentioned anything -- well, strike that.

When you were interviewed by the LA Police Department, that was
because -- and you were aware of that they felt Mr. Simpson was a
suspect in the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman,
correct?

A. Say the question again.

Q. When you were interviewed on June 13, 1994, at 1:30 in the
afternoon by officers Tippin and Carr, you knew at that point in time
that they felt O.J. Simpson was a suspect in the murders of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, true?

A. They didn't say anything to me about that, but I assumed that's
what they were doing at the house.

Q. And you certainly knew by the time that you testified before the
grand jury, that O.J. Simpson had been arrested and was the suspect
for the double murders, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you certainly knew that when you testified before the
preliminary hearing, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, in terms of either of -- strike that.

In any three of those interviews, you never mentioned one time about
any alleged pausing of Mr. Simpson in your inability or ability to
think that maybe you were intruding on him, did you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. There's no foundation that he was asked any
of these kind of questions, Your Honor. I object. If he's got a
specific question and answer, he should present it.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Isn't that true, sir?

You never mentioned purported pausing when you knew Mr. Simpson was a
suspect in any of those occasions, did you, sir?

A. I don't know if I did or not.

It's what happened, though.

Q. So you have -- was your recollection refreshed after you had the
interview with Mark Elliott to try to sell your book?

MR. PETROCELLI: No foundation, recollection needed refreshing Your
Honor. I object.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Well, would there be any reason that you wouldn't
want to give the Los Angeles District Attorney's office and the ladies
and gentlemen of the grand jury and the judge in the preliminary
hearing, the full evidence relative to, for example, a pause or
something to that effect?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object. There's no foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in terms, sir -- in terms, sir, of your
discussions that night, after you say there was this pause, and then
Mr. Simpson actually told you, sir, come along, didn't he?

A. He -- he did, after that pause, invite me along.

Q. And you went out through the house, got in his car, and drove down
to McDonald's, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And he got his hamburger and you got your grilled chicken or
whatever it was, and you headed back up towards Rockingham, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And he ate his hamburger in the car and had it consumed by the time
you got into the -- into the property at 360 North Rockingham, right?

A. It was gone by then, yes.

Q. And he didn't have any food left, did he?

A. I thought he had French fries.

Q. He had no food, and you knew that he'd already eaten his food
before you ever said you were going to go back into the nook and eat
with him; isn't that true, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. It's compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I knew he had finished the burger, but I don't remember
everything else he ordered.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in terms of coming in -- coming back from
McDonald's, do you remember if you came up San Vicente and then or --
strike that -- came up 26th Street?

A. I'm pretty positive we came up 26th to Rockingham.

Q. And you don't recall, as you sit here now, and haven't recalled
every time it was asked, specifically which gate you came in, true?

A. I think I've always thought it had to be Ashford because the way we
parked the car.

Q. You don't have a recollection in your mind's eye of even coming in
the Ashford gate, do you, sir?

A. I assume it had to be Ashford.

Q. You don't have a recollection in your own mind of coming in from
there; you're making an assumption because of where the car was
parked, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. All right. All right.

Now, the area where the car was parked, this little inlet area in the
driveway of Mr. Simpson's property, that is an area that holds one,
two, three cars? How many?

A. I think there can be a car -- I think there can be a car that will
go --

Q. We're back here.

A. -- here and here.

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

A. This car was more right here, where I could see the taillights.

Q. And in your view, his car was -- that would be the back of it,
wherever it went?

A. It was more out here, a little bit in there.

Like that.

I know I could see the back of it, though.

Q. All right.

A. I don't remember this part actually sticking out this much.

MR. PETROCELLI: There is a photograph.

MR. BAKER: Let's pull it up. I'll get it.

THE COURT: Take a ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. BAKER: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, Mr. Kaelin, even after the pause that you say
you observed when you asked Mr. Simpson to go to get a hamburger,
there was nothing in his demeanor or his behavior that was unusual at
all except that he was tired, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. In other words, during the drive to get food, he was not upset, was
he?

A. No.

Q. Now, he was not depressed?

A. Well, he was tired. "Depressed," it's kind of a fine line. I
thought just not talkative. So I could say, yeah, it was maybe
depressed and tired, just quiet.

Q. Now, let me read what you told the grand jury on page 64, lines 7
through 15?

A. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: One second Mr. Baker.

Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading:)

"Q. During the drive to get food, can you describe how Mr. Simpson was
behaving?

"A. Quiet. I asked him about -- a question about what airline he was
going to fly out and what time the flight was, but he was, you know,
he seemed very tired.

"Q. Did he seem upset?

"A. No.

"Q. Or depressed?

"A. No, tired.

And likewise, Mr. Kaelin, on the way back, you didn't notice anything
unusual other than he was tired, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, so, by the time that you were back from the McDonald's, you
knew that he was on American Airlines and his flight was at 11:45,
right?

A. I think I knew it was American Airlines; I knew it was a red eye,
and I think he said American.

MR. BAKER: Now, can we put up that photograph of the Bentley, please.

MR. P. BAKER: 2197.

MR. LEONARD: 2197.

MR. BAKER: Thanks. I never get them right.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Photograph of Mr. Simpson's
Bentley automobile as it was parked on the property of 360 Rockingham
was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2197.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) That's where the Bentley was parked when you came
back on the 12th of June 1994 from McDonald's, correct?

A. Yeah, pretty much.

I don't know if it's wider on that shot.

Is that the widest it goes?

Q. I think it is.

I think we can see all the borders of that.

A. Yeah. Because I could see it better, but basically it's how it
would park, yeah.

Q. And now, we can see that there is some space behind Mr. Simpson's
Bentley; that is still in this cut-out area, correct?

A. Say it again?

Q. Well, in other words, the driveway is over here, is it not?

A. Um-hum.

Q. And this cut-out area is so that there's an ability to park cars in
the circular driveway and still get through, is it not?

A. Yeah.

Q. And behind Mr. Simpson's Bentley is a space where we can see that
there is, you know, some tile or whatever it is, and that is in an
area, as I'm pointing in this cut-out area, on 191.

MR. BAKER: Is it 191?

MR. P. BAKER: 116.

MR. BAKER: 116.

The jurors know better. (Indicating to exhibit.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) There are bushes that go right along here that we
can see in this photograph; isn't that true?

A. Um-hum. Yes.

Q. And those bushes come up about what, two feet?

A. Yeah. Looks like about two feet.

Q. And that vehicle, you cannot -- well, maybe it's three feet,
whatever it is. But you cannot open the right-hand passenger door with
that vehicle in that position, can you?

It goes right into the bushes; isn't that true, sir?

A. If it's parked like that, that close, yeah.

Q. And what happened on the night of June 12, 1994, as it always
happens, when Mr. Simpson -- if somebody is a passenger in his Bentley
and drives into that cut-out area, he is -- he lets the person out
before he pulls next to the bushes because you can't get out when you
get close to the bushes; isn't that correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object to what Mr. Simpson always does.

THE COURT: Sustained as to what he always does.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) On the night of June 12, 1994, Mr. Simpson let you
out of the vehicle before he pulled it into the cut-out area, where
the vehicle is pictured on the photograph on the monitor; isn't that
true, sir?

A. I don't think so. I think I got out and that was it, and he got
out.

Q. Is it your recollection, sir, as you sit here -- you know, I want
you to assume that that picture is a picture taken of the Bentley on
June 13, 1994, parked in the position it was parked and left on June
12, 1994.

Is it your recollection, sir, that you got out, fought the bushes and
struggled back through the bushes before you went out of the vehicle
and towards the breakfast nook?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object. There's no basis for that
assumption, Your Honor. There's no testimony.

THE COURT: Sustained. There does not appear to be any foundation as to
when.

MR. BAKER: That's why I asked it in a hypothetical.

THE COURT: That's a compound question. Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now--

MR. BAKER: And you sustained it on the grounds of compound?

THE COURT: Well, the big problem is, the primary objection is, there's
no foundation for your initial question with regards to how that car
was photographed in this position.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, forget how the car was photographed. I want you
to assume that that car was in the area where it is depicted in this
photograph.

Do you have a recollection, sir, of opening the passenger door into
the bushes and crawling between the bushes and the car going back
towards the south, or -- strike that -- the east, towards the house?

A. No, I don't remember that, going to the bushes.

Q. And were you there enough to know whether or not you could get a
car behind where Mr. Simpson generally parked the Bentley?

A. You mean, could another car go back behind the Bentley right now?

Q. Yes, sir.

A. In that spot --

Q. Yeah.

A. -- there?

Yeah. Because there was this driveway. A few cars would park there.

Q. Forget the driveway.

At least in the cut-out area -- that's what we've been calling it,
this area cut out -- so that the driveway can still be used to go in
one gate and out the other, is it your recollection that the Bentley
would usually be parked in the -- toward most -- area closest to
Rockingham, and that Arnelle Simpson would park her Saab behind that
vehicle?

A. I couldn't tell.

Two cars could fit there, but I didn't know which would be in front or
behind.

Q. And Mr. Simpson generally, to your recollection, drove his Bronco,
as contrasted to his Bentley?

A. Yeah, I think -- I think more the Bronco.

Q. Now, you say that you walked after -- wherever you got out of the
Bentley, you walked towards the house, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you were walking towards the kitchen nook?

A. Yes.

Q. And you never told any LA Police Officers, not named Tippin or Carr
or anyone else, that Mr. Simpson went into the front of the house, did
you?

A. No.

Q. And you don't know how that appeared in their police report on the
statement taken by you at 1:30 in the afternoon of June 13, 1994,
correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, Your Honor. It's not a police report; it's
handwritten notes; and it's not in the subsequent reports.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You may answer if you know.

THE WITNESS: Say the question again.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You don't have any idea how it appeared in the
police interview of you at 1:30 in the afternoon of June 13, 1994,
that you walked into the house the prior evening, towards the house,
and that Mr. Simpson entered the front of the house?

A. I have no idea how that appeared.

Q. Now, and you've testified to this jury that you believe you were
going into the kitchen nook to have -- to finish your meal with Mr.
Simpson, right?

A. Um-hum. Yes, I did.

Q. You knew because you'd already been, of course, in the vehicle with
him, that he had a flight to catch later that evening, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you knew, because you saw him, that he had eaten his hamburger
in the car, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And nonetheless, it is your testimony that you thought you were
going to go into the kitchen nook and eat it, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

Now, you then went around through the driveway, around the path,
across the deck area, and down into your room, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you went and you were on your bed, as I understand it, talking
on the telephone and eating whatever, your chicken sandwich that you
had gotten?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And you stayed basically in that position; that is, lying on the
bed, talking first to Tom O'Brien and then to Rachel, correct, until
such a time as you got up after you heard these thumps that you have
testified to on many occasions, correct?

A. No. After Tom, I got up to get the typewriter.

Q. Okay.

A. And I was moving around.

Q. By the way, you talked about that typewriter. That was another
thing you talked about with Mr. Simpson on the way to get your
hamburger, wasn't it?

A. Right, yeah.

Q. And you just asked if you could use the typewriter. And he said,
sure, it's Nicole's; go ahead and use it; it's fine, right?

A. Right.

Q. Okay.

Now, when -- you then got back and you determined that the typewriter
wasn't going to work in what, five minutes or so?

A. Well, I was plugging it in different outlets and I didn't know if
it was the outlet or the typewriter.

Q. And this was in your room, correct?

A. Right. It's in the office area, too.

Q. And the thing never worked in any outlet, right?

A. It made a noise but it wasn't working in one of the -- in any of
the outlets.

Q. Other than that five minutes, sir, would it be true that the rest
of the time, you were basically on your bed and on the telephone?

A. Yeah.

And when I was on the phone with Rachel, I put the phone down and said
to her, look, you know, I'm plugging it in now and it's not working.
Had a -- I was joking around, so I was moving and back on the bed with
the phone.

Q. So for a period from approximately 9:37 until sometime close to 11
o'clock, you were on that bed, correct?

A. Pretty much, yes.

Q. And by the way, you can't see the upstairs of Mr. Simpson's house
from the bed in your room, can you?

A. If my slits are open -- I can't remember if you can see him or not
from the bed -- the slits in the door -- I don't know if you can see
the reflection coming out.

I had the office door open because the typewriter was there, so
there's this big window there, and I --

Q. Sir, just answer my question. And my question to you is --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. He was answering it, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I don't think it was responsive.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) My question to you was: And when you're lying back
on the bed, you cannot see whether or not a light is on in the
upstairs of Mr. Simpson's house from your room, or the room you were
using in June of 1994; isn't that true, sir?

A. It could be the way you're laying, yes.

Q. And it is also true that you can't see whether or not a television
is on from the position of lying in that bed, looking at -- in through
the office or looking out the window from the room that you were
using, correct?

A. From the office, you could see through the window -- if you went
outside, you could, yes, but not laying in the bed, probably not.

Q. In -- So, you didn't have the ability from 9:40 -- 9:37, when you
got back, to the time that you went out in front of that house, to the
driveway, to see whether or not the lights were on, whether or not the
television was on, with the exception of when you left your room and
went out on the decking area and walked around, correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object. It's vague. What does he mean, "the ability?"

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Partially, yes.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in terms of your then situation, you have
testified on many occasions about these thumps that you say you heard,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you have each time, with the exception of your deposition in
February of 1996, indicated that the thumps were rhythmic and hit the
witness stand where you were testifying, right?

(Mr. Baker hit the podium, demonstrating.)

THE WITNESS: Correct.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And after you spent eight and a half hours or so
with Mr. Petrocelli, when you were taking your deposition in February
of 1996, you felt compelled to roll along the wall, didn't you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. It's argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's also vague and ambiguous.

THE COURT: As to form.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You didn't use your general thump, thump, thump (Mr.
Baker hits the podium, demonstrating) in your deposition; you made a
movement along the wall in the room when we were taking your
deposition.

After you had spent hours with Mr. Petrocelli --

MR. PETROCELLI: Compound.

THE COURT: Compound. Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: Lack of foundation about what he was asked to do.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, you testified in terms of that, the time that
you heard these thumps were -- at the preliminary hearing, you said
10:40, 10:45, correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. Can we have a page and line reference?

And that misstates the testimony, Your Honor.

It's on page 104 --

MR. BAKER: It's on page 1047, to 28.

MR. PETROCELLI: Also line 14.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You said 10:45 --

MR. PETROCELLI: Line 14.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) -- true?

A. Approximately, right.

Q. And you testified in the trial, it was 10:40 to 10:45.

MR. BAKER: Page 19,873. You got that?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes, Mr. Baker.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And you testified at the criminal trial, 10:40 to
10:45, correct?

A. True, with an explanation.

Q. And you had -- during that period of time, you had a conversation
with Rachel, true?

A. Correct.

Q. And at approximately 9 -- 10:30, rather, you and Rachel -- you said
to her -- she said to you something -- you both indicated that it was
10:30, or you had a conversation that it was approximately 10:30 at
that time, did you not?

A. I think it was all approximate.

Q. You testified it was approximately 10 minutes later that you heard
the thumps, at 10:40, correct?

A. If -- you have to show me if it's on there.

Q. Trial testimony, page 19,873.

MR. PETROCELLI: What line, Mr. Baker?

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry, I don't have a line in front of me.

Let me get it for you. I'm sorry.

THE WITNESS: Mr. Baker, I was never aware of time, so it was always
approximate.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Let me read from 19,873.

Now, by the time you testified on March 22, 1995, there was at least
what, 50 people that asked you what time it was that you heard the
thumps?

A. I have no idea.

Q. Well, you certainly had been asked by Marcia Clark, hadn't you?

A. That's one person.

Q. You certainly had been asked by Mr. Cochran hadn't you?

A. Probably, yes.

Q. You certainly had been asked by Mark Elliott, hadn't you, in your
interview with him?

A. Possibly.

Q. You certainly were asked at the grand jury and the preliminary
hearing, weren't you?

A. Um-hum.

Q. You were asked by news reporters, weren't you?

A. I don't think so.

Q. You had, before you testified at the criminal trial, spent hours
with the District Attorney relative to your testimony, had you not
sir?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. How many hours did you actually spend with the D.A.s before you got
on the witness stand in March of '95?

A. I don't know how many hours. It was a few -- quite a few.

Q. Was it over 15?

A. I think so.

Q. And you knew in those interviews, they had asked you on numerous
occasions how you judged the time at 10:40; isn't that correct, sir?

A. I think I've always said "approximately."

Q. Okay.

And how you judged the time at approximately 10:40, you were asked
that on numerous occasions before you testified at the trial, were you
not, sir?

A. I believe so.

Q. And you testified at page 19873, that page, lines 7 through 16:

"Q. At that point, sir, that you heard the thumps on the walls, sir,
about how long had you been on the phone with Rachel Ferraro?

"A. About a half an hour.

"Q. So approximately what time was it when you heard the thumps on the
wall?

"A. It was about 10:40.

"Q. Is that exactly 10:40?

"A. Well, I don't remember I didn't look at a clock, but around
10:40."

That's what you said, is it not, sir?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And you didn't say 10:50, did you?

A. No; I said "around."

Q. And you then testified that -- and you'd previously testified 10:40
to 10:45, correct --

A. If --

Q. -- at the criminal trial?

A. If it's on there, I probably said that, around that time, yes.

Q. And you didn't testify to in the neighborhood of 10:50, did you,
sir?

A. Well, it's like the explanation; again, I didn't have -- I didn't
have a clock or a watch.

Q. You didn't talk about 10:50 at any time after you had given a
statement to Mr. Shapiro, when you thought you got back from
McDonald's at 10 o'clock, until -- until you spent hours with Mr.
Petrocelli; isn't that true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor. This is an absolute
misstatement of the Shapiro interview. Got home at 9:40 to 9:45. It's
right here, line 17, page 20.

He keeps saying 10 o'clock. I object.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) The only time you ever mentioned 10:50 wasn't until
you spent eight plus hours with Mr. Petrocelli; isn't that correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. Lack of foundation; misstates his
testimony.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You may answer.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You can answer.

A. Say it again.

Q. This is the last time.

Never mind. I'll withdraw it. Never mind.

Now, you demonstrated the thumps in a rhythmic fashion every time you
testified about those thumps; that is, equal distance, spaced apart,
every time you've testified about them, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you never mentioned a vibration on the wall that you felt until
today, did you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Lack of foundation Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: It's a question.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Well, that the picture moved, I guess it's obvious that
there had to be vibration.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, let's talk about the picture.

MR. BAKER: Can you put that up?

(Exhibit 143 displayed on TV screen.)

MR. P. BAKER: 143.

THE WITNESS: That's not --

Q. That's okay. We'll get to the other picture in a minute. That's
looking from, basically, the entrance to your room to the east,
correct?

A. As if this was the office, looking in, right.

Q. Right?

A. Correct.

Q. And this room, besides having the walls that it has on it, has a
paneling that's about a half an inch thick of wood, is it not?

A. Right; there's wood on it.

Q. And the air conditioner is in the area where my finger is, by the
latch. That would be on the -- on the east side of the room, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And then there's a bathroom that adjoins that, you can enter, that
adjoins the room here, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And the other bathroom is a bathroom for people who are using the
pool. To use it, it is only accessible from the outside; is that
correct?

A. Right.

Q. Now -- and then there's a window in the bathroom that is a couple
of feet east of the air conditioner, correct?

A. Right.

Q. And that window opens out to the pathway where the Rockingham glove
was purportedly found, true?

A. True.

Q. Now -- and that window, you can open and --

A. It's --

Q. -- you wanted to throw something out, you could throw something
out?

A. Right. It's a wind-up window.

Q. Now, in terms, sir, of your --

MR. BAKER: Did you get the other view to the --

MR. P. BAKER: 194.

(Exhibit 194 displayed on the TV screen.)

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) That is then looking to the west, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. At an angle, obviously.

And this is the double doors that open into the office, true?

A. True.

Q. And the light in the picture, you say, moved, right?

A. The picture moved, yeah, not the light.

Q. Correct. The picture, you say?

A. The picture.

Q. Now, you said -- you previously testified that it almost moved off
the wall, didn't you?

A. That it moved and it was very noticeable movement to it.

Q. Okay. Let me read from your preliminary hearing testimony, page
105, lines 22 to 27.

MR. BAKER: Have you looked at that, Mr. Petrocelli?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes.

MR. BAKER: Will you give me some sort of signal?

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading:)

"Q. So there was a picture on that wall, also?

"A. (No audible response.)

"Q. Is that yes?

"A. Yes, it was a picture.

"Q. And that picture moved when you heard the noises?

"A. Yes. It almost moved off the wall."

Was that your testimony on July 5, 1994, sir?

A. Correct.

Q. And then you also testified that through this wall and this
paneling -- the next time you testified, you testified that the
picture moved six inches, did you not?

A. I don't remember, but if it's on there, I possibly said it.

Q. And you say that the picture moved six inches. And that would be
towards -- towards the west, wouldn't it?

Six inches -- the lower portion -- picture moved six inches towards
the west?

A. It was a tilt like that (indicating).

Q. That occurred after the first thump?

A. I don't know exactly.

Q. Second thump?

A. I don't know.

Q. Third thump?

A. After the thumps.

Q. So you then heard all three thumps and then the picture moved,
right?

A. Correct.

Q. So the thumping had quit. And after you had completed the thumping,
then the picture moved six inches, or almost off the wall, and the
bottom portion of that picture moves towards the west. And that wall
-- what looks like maybe there's a thermostat . . .

A. It could have happened during the thumps. I wasn't positive, but it
happened because of thumps and it could have gone --

Q. Which is it?

A. I would think it happened during the thumps.

Q. You testified here this morning that it happened after the thumps.
And you testified now that it happened during the thumps.

Is it your testimony that it happened during or after, or do you
really not have a clear recollection of those events at all?

A. No, the picture did move because of the thumps. It happened.

Q. And, sir, in terms of location of these purported thumps, were they
right behind the picture?

A. No.

Q. Were they right behind the headboard?

A. Behind the headboard, yes.

Q. Directly behind the headboard?

MR. BAKER: Would you put the other picture on, Phil the later one.

MR. P. BAKER: 143.

MR. BAKER: Please tell us the number.

MR. P. BAKER: 143.

(Exhibit 143 displayed.)

MR. BAKER: We have one other picture that looks at the headboard, do
we not?

No? Okay.

MR. P. BAKER: 194.

(Exhibit 194 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) The headboard is approximately how wide?

A. It's the same length as the bed -- the width of the bed, I should
say. I would imagine about five feet.

Q. You were over on the right side of that bed as you face it,
correct?

A. Right there, correct (indicating).

Q. And the thumps -- the air conditioner is at least six feet away
from you?

A. About that, yeah.

Q. And you then heard thumps, what, behind?

A. Behind me.

Q. And it was some two to three minutes later, then, that you decided
to investigate?

A. Correct.

Q. And when you investigated, you were kind of concerned about these
thumps and the possibility of an intruder, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And that was foremost on your mind at that time, was it not?

A. Pretty much, yes.

Q. And you were kind of, well, a little bit frightened, weren't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And you wanted to see if there was anything visible that you could
associate with the noises you just heard, true?

A. True.

Q. And so your attention, as you left your room, went up the stairs
and walked past the pool and through the path, was to determine
whether or not there was any cause for the noises that you believed
you heard at approximately 10:40, 10:45, right?

A. I'm sorry. Can you say it one more time?

Q. When you left your room and went up the stairs to -- about three
steps, isn't it, something like that?

A. Right.

Q. An then you're on the deck area of the pool; pool's to your right;
as you're traversing, as you're walking this way, the pool's on your
right; you're going in a northerly direction. Around these are -- this
is a wall here, and then these are glass doors, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you were --

By the way, just this back door, back here (indicating to 116)

A. To the bar area.

Q. Yeah?

A. Yeah.

Q. This one, where you go up onto the little -- this is a couple of
steps, too, is it not?

A. Yes.

Q. There's no alarm pad on that door, is there?

A. I don't remember.

Q. There's no lock on that door that can be opened from the outside,
either, is there?

A. I don't remember.

Q. Now, you went to the north, got on the path, went around to the
driveway area, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And as say, your concern was the noise and the possible threat, that
whatever caused those noises, could be to you or to the property,
true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you weren't, I take it, looking to see whether Mr. Simpson's
lights were on upstairs and looking to see whether Mr. Simpson's
lights were on downstairs, were you?

A. No, I don't think I was looking. But I think from the bedroom, it
illuminates, so I could see more on the pathway in back if they were
on, and I think I remember that.

Q. All right. When you walk around the house, for example, when you
get to the -- to the front den area, those lights are never on, are
they?

A. The front? You mean those coach lights or the --

Q. No.

A. The actual den itself?

Q. It's a poor question. I apologize.

A. I accept your apology.

Q. I'm delighted.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, he's going to use the exhibit to which he
previously objected. I assume his objection is withdrawn.

MR. BAKER: It is not, Your Honor. But what I would like to do is to
take this and just cut off the bottom portion of it, which is the only
inaccuracy that I have complaints about.

MR. PETROCELLI: There is nothing inaccurate about it, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: But I will give you one touche.

MR. PETROCELLI: I was serious about getting that exhibit put into
evidence if he's now going to use it.

THE COURT: I'm not going to allow it without sufficient foundation.

MR. BAKER: Sorry about this.

Can we put it on that one?

Maybe not. Okay. Sorry.

MR. P. BAKER: That is 199.

199.

(Exhibit 199 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, this den area is virtually never used, to your
knowledge, is it?

A. Right.

Q. So there's -- you wouldn't expect any lights to be on in that room,
would you?

A. No.

Q. If Mr. Simpson is home alone, you wouldn't expect there to be any
lights on in the living room, would you?

A. To be on in the living room?

Q. Yeah. If he's upstairs, there would be no reason to have lights on
in the living room?

A. Possibly not.

Q. No reason to have lights on in the family room or dining room if
he's upstairs.

MR. PETROCELLI: This calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Now, when you went around to the driveway area, you then
said in your testimony this morning that you saw the limousine parked
at the Ashford gate, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you're clear, are you not, as is your testimony today, that you
did not let that vehicle into the driveway until you had gone and made
your first inspection, if you will, on the south side of the house by
the garage?

A. Correct.

Q. So you walked out of that pathway, took a left turn, and then
headed basically due south towards the garage area, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you walked down the garage area and there was a gate there,
true?

A. Yeah, right up here there's a gate.

Q. All right. And that gate, it's a little chain link gate, is it not?

A. Yeah, it's -- it would be like me moving this picture, same thing,
you can move it.

Q. All right. But --

A. It's chain link.

Q. And it has obviously a metal frame around the chain link fence,
does it not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that particular gate didn't work, did it or didn't then?

A. No, you just lean it against this tree.

Q. And so that gate was in place and you took it out, leaned it
against the tree, and walked back a few more feet, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And it was dark back there, you felt uncomfortable, so you walked
back out. You put the gate back to where you had originally taken it
from?

A. Pretty positive, yes.

Q. Now -- and the gate wasn't lying down, it wasn't askew, it was
upright and you had to move it to get there both times, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, in -- in the house, how many entrances, if you know, are there
to get into the house from anyplace on the south side?

A. I believe that at the time I knew, there was right by the maid's --
the laundry room.

Q. Also, a door goes into the garage?

A. Right.

Q. That goes, then, into the house?

A. Correct.

Q. And so if anybody was coming over the fence, they could -- and
wanted to get into the house, they could enter through the maid's room
or they could enter through the garage, and then into the garage, and
then through the door that goes from the garage into the main living
quarters?

MR. PETROCELLI: Assumes facts not in evidence, incomplete
hypothetical, Your Honor, in terms of keys and locks and so forth.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I imagine they could, yes.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) All right. And you knew about both of those doors,
did you not, in June of 1994?

A. No, I only knew of that maid's door.

Q. You had gone past the door to get into the garage and you had never
seen it?

A. Didn't know it was there.

Q. Now, in terms of the garage itself, you had been in and out of that
particular room, I guess it's called, garage, had you not?

A. Been in the garage?

Q. Yeah.

A. About three or four times, yes.

Q. That's where Mr. Simpson kept a car parked in there that he
virtually never used, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And there were some weights and a multitude of golf clubs in there,
right?

A. Golf clubs, yes, bikes.

Q. Bikes, weights, and basically difficult to navigate through there
because of all the junk in there?

A. Correct.

Q. So if you were going to --

MR. BAKER: Can we put that picture up, the garage.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'd like to excuse my next witness who's
been waiting a couple of hours outside, is that okay?

THE COURT: Let me see counsel.

(A bench conference was held which was not reported.)

THE COURT: Take 10, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. BAKER: Thank you, Your Honor.

Okay, let me put up a diagram of the property. I guess it's this one.
I'm sorry.

MR. P. BAKER: 116.

(Exhibit 116 displayed.)

MR. BAKER: 2199 is the overlay. I'm sorry. Thank you. Thank you.

(Counsel adjusts Exhibit 116.)

Q. Now, Mr. Kaelin, after you made your first inspection, if you will,
to the south side of the garage, do you have a recollection of when
you saw Mr. Simpson?

A. I can't be exact.

Q. In fact, sir, as you sit here today, you don't know if you saw him
at all on the first inspection or the second inspection, isn't that
true?

A. Correct.

Q. You could have walked right past him and you don't have a
recollection of it when you were going around the garage to the south
side for the first time, true?

A. One of those times I saw him, correct.

Q. And when you then went around the garage, put the gate back to
where it was, you went back towards Ashford and let the limo driver
in, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the limo driver then drove up and the vehicle was parked in an
area in front of the driveway.

In front he was facing in a southeasterly direction?

A. True.

Q. And then you -- there's a golf bag sitting there between -- there's
a couple benches, are there not?

A. Benches here, golf bag was here, laying that way.

Q. And the benches run parallel to the -- well, to the entrance I
guess. They run the same direction as my pen?

A. Right.

Q. Okay. And there was -- Mr. Simpson's golf bag was there?

A. Yes.

Q. You picked it up and put it in the limo?

A. At one point I did, yes.

Q. And now then, as I understand it, you then had a conversation with
Mr. Simpson about the noises, right?

A. One of those times, I did.

Q. And as I understand your testimony, sir, you testified presently
that you did not go into the kitchen?

A. I did, I made it to the entranceway of the kitchen.

Q. You may resume the stand.

MR. BAKER: Page 58, interview with Mark Elliott, lines 9 through 13.

You got that?

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't have it, but proceed.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading.) Then I went in the house with him, I
said, quote, 'I need a flashlight,' unquote, so we go into the kitchen
area and I walk right behind him, kind of behind him, and he goes
whoa, what's the time.

Now, that's what you told Mark Elliott when you were trying to sell
your story, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You didn't lie to Mr. Elliott when you gave this interview on
December 7 of 1994?

A. I think those sounded like his words more. I think he was
generalizing.

I never walked into the kitchen area.

Q. Well, let me show you what I'll represent to you is an official
transcript of that taped interview and represent to you that the "K"
is your words and the "E" is Mr. Elliott's words.

And does that not indicate that you told him on a tape, quote, so we
go into the kitchen and I -- I walk right behind him, kind of behind
him, and then he goes whoa, what's the time.

That's what you said, is it not, sir?

A. I didn't say areas. It says kitchen area, go into the kitchen area.

I didn't go into the kitchen.

There's an area where the doorway is.

Q. Mr. Kaelin --

A. Um-hum.

Q. There is -- when you go into the kitchen, there is a foyer and
there is a kitchen and there's a line of demarcation because there's a
hall there, isn't there, sir?

A. Yes, there is.

Q. And if you go into the kitchen area, that means the area where the
kitchen is and the kitchen nook, isn't that true, sir?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And you told Mark Elliott on December 27, 1994 you went into the
kitchen area with Mr. Simpson, right behind him or a little bit behind
him, true?

A. Right, never fully into the kitchen though. I wasn't in the
kitchen.

Q. If you're in the kitchen area, you're in the kitchen, fair enough,
can we agree at least on that?

A. Okay.

Q. Thanks.

Now, then, is it your testimony in this courtroom today, that after
you left the kitchen, you then went out and then there was some deal
about who picks up a duffel bag around the Bentley?

A. Yes.

Q. And how many times have you testified, Mr. Kaelin, before today,
that when Mr. Simpson left the kitchen area, he stopped, talked to you
and said "It's late, you set the alarm," and got right into the limo?
How many times?

A. I don't know.

I don't think those are the exact words.

Q. Well, you certainly testified that from the kitchen area Mr.
Simpson talked to you about the alarm. You didn't testify to that this
morning either, did you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, misstates the testimony.

MR. BAKER: Let me go back and lay a foundation.

A. Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) When you testified here today, sir, you testified
that after you, quote, didn't go into the kitchen and Mr. Simpson did
go into the kitchen, you then walked out, there was a duffel bag or
some bag behind the Bentley, you went to go get it. You of course
didn't know whether he even wanted that bag when you attempted to go
get it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, argumentative, it misstates the record,
it's a speech. I think if Mr. Baker goes back and reviews the
testimony --

MR. BAKER: I don't need a speech from you, Mr. Petrocelli.

MR. PETROCELLI: Anyway, misstates the testimony.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) When you walked out of the kitchen, you didn't know
if he wanted any bag because you had no conversation about any bag
behind the Bentley, isn't that true, sir?

A. True.

Q. And you testified that after you -- both of you left the house, you
started to walk over to the Bentley to pick up a bag, right, and he
said, oh no, don't do that?

A. He said that, yes.

Q. And you have heretofore testified --

MR. BAKER: Can you bring that up.

MR. PETROCELLI: Page and line, please.

MR. P. BAKER: 19912.

MR. PETROCELLI: Is this the trial testimony?

MR. BAKER: It is.

MR. PETROCELLI: One second, please.

199 what?

MR. P. BAKER: 19912, line 15.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

(Transcript displayed.)

MR. BAKER: Pull it up.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Question by Ms. Clark in the criminal trial was --
(Reading.)

After you had the conversation about the alarm control panel, what
happened next? Your answer: Hum, he got into the limo to catch the
flight.

That's what you testified to, was it not, sir?

A. Right.

Q. And you didn't testify to any attempt to get a duffel bag or
anything else, did you?

A. I thought I did. Somewhere in the trial it came up.

Q. I see.

And you didn't testify that the first time you knew the alarm wasn't
set is when you got a telephone call from O.J. Simpson while you were
on the phone to Rachel Ferrara, isn't that true?

A. Correct, called me to set the alarm.

Q. You testified here in the courtroom today that the first time you
knew that you had the duty to set the alarm is when you got a phone
call from Mr. Simpson, after you'd gone back to your room, isn't that
true?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Question is vague as to duty. He testified as to --

MR. BAKER: A request.

MR. PETROCELLI: -- two conversations about the alarm.

MR. BAKER: Well, I'm going to object.

THE COURT: Sustained. There's no testimony that -- regarding beauty --
duty.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't know what that means.

MR. BAKER: Request. Let me -- I apologize.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You testified, sir, in this courtroom today, that
the first time Mr. Simpson made a request of you to set the alarm was
after he had left in the limousine and you had walked back around the
property and gone back to your room and you were on the phone with
Rachel Ferrara and you got beeped in on your call waiting service,
correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, misstates the testimony.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No.

THE COURT: That's not correct. You may tell him it's not correct.

A. That's not correct.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And you testified in the criminal trial that as you
were going out the front door, Mr. Simpson had requested of you to set
the alarm, that he would call you on the telephone and tell you the
alarm code number, got into the limo and left, true?

A. Not true.

Q. Now, you were awoken at approximately 6 a.m. on the morning of the
13th, somewhere around there.

MR. PETROCELLI: All beyond the scope of direct. Object. All new area.

THE COURT: Assuming you're going to finish today, Mr. Baker, I'll let
you proceed. But if you're going to have him come back, then I will
sustain it.

MR. BAKER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) We're going to finish today, Mr. Kaelin, okay?

A. Okay.

Q. Got it. Those are our marching orders.

Now, 6 o'clock, you're awakened by banging on the door, correct?

A. Approximately, right.

Q. And when you gained consciousness, you go to the door, open the
door, and there is Mark Fuhrman, true?

A. Four officers. Mark Fuhrman was one of them.

Q. Mark Fuhrman is the one that comes into your room, is he not?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mark Fuhrman is the one who interrogates you in your room, is
he not?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when that door opens and there are four police officers, they
identify themselves, do they not, as police officers, correct?

A. They did.

Q. And your -- the very next words out of your mouth is, what's wrong,
did O.J.'s plane go down, isn't that true, sir?

A. I think I said that right away, yes.

Q. And so you informed the officers that you knew the whereabouts of
Mr. Simpson, at least in the initial phases, and that he had been on
an airplane, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, Mark Fuhrman then started to interrogate you about your
whereabouts, did he not?

A. Yes.

Q. He also interrogated you about what you had on the night before,
did he not?

A. Correct.

Q. And he asked you if you had been taking drugs or alcohol, didn't
he?

A. Correct.

Q. And he then gave you a stigmas test, or something like that, where
he takes his flashlight and looks in your eyes?

A. It was either a pen light or flashlight, one of them.

Q. That was a test, he explained to you, to see if you ingested any
drugs?

A. Something like that, yes.

Q. Now, you told -- you were kind of frightened to see four police
officers, weren't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And you told the police officers, in particular Mark Fuhrman,
everything you knew about the whereabouts of Mr. Simpson, didn't you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Going to object, it's irrelevant, irrelevant to any
issue in the case.

THE COURT: You may answer yes or no.

A. I didn't -- I don't think I said everything, but I did say that I
was very scared and talking rapidly.

Q. And you told Mark Fuhrman that Mr. Simpson was on -- had caught the
plane the night before, the redeye, to go to Chicago, didn't you?

A. I might have said that to everybody, all four of them.

Q. Then you also indicated to them that O.J. Simpson was scheduled to
be in Chicago at an event for Hertz the following morning, did you
not?

A. I think I said he was at a Hertz event. I don't think I said what
time it was scheduled.

Q. Sure.

Then you indicated that he had in fact, that is, Mr. Simpson, had an
11:45 flight out of LAX to Chicago O'Hare, or at least to Chicago,
correct?

A. Redeye, I think I said.

Q. And you told them the time because you knew the time of 11:45
before anybody ever started banging on your door at 6 o'clock in the
morning, correct?

A. I don't remember that.

Q. You did know the time because you had been concerned about Mr.
Simpson's running a little late when you were talking to the limo
driver, correct?

A. I think I just said redeye. I'm not -- I think I just said a redeye
flight.

Q. Okay. And you indicated to -- well, strike that.

After you -- the door is banged on, and the person that comes in your
room is Mark Fuhrman, correct?

A. I believe Phillips first, then Fuhrman. Then Fuhrman stayed with me
while the rest were outside.

Q. What happened was they asked you if anybody else was on the
property to your knowledge, didn't they?

A. They asked me first who I was and who lived here.

Q. I understand.

A. And if anybody else was on the property.

Q. And you told them that Arnelle was on the property and she was in
the guest room to the immediate east of you, correct?

A. Right, I thought -- I said I thought Arnelle was there. So they
knocked on her door.

Q. You knew Arnelle was there, you heard her come in at 1:30 in the
morning?

A. I heard steps.

Q. You thought it was Arnelle?

A. Right, I thought it was Arnelle.

Q. In fact you testified in one proceeding that you felt more
comfortable, less frightened, after you heard the steps at 1:30
because at least now you knew Arnelle was on the property, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. So then what happened, sir, is that all the police officers,
with the exception of Mark Fuhrman, leave your room, isn't that true?
And go to Arnelle's?

A. I believe when Fuhrman was doing that, Phillips wasn't in the room
but he was by that -- the ledge way on the cement.

Q. And Phillips left too and went to Arnelle's area, did he not?

A. I don't remember that for sure.

Q. In any event, sir, the only person that interrogated you in your
area -- area of your room was Mark Fuhrman, correct?

A. Yes, when Fuhrman was in my room and I believe everyone was
outside.

Q. And he made you go get your shows to show him what kind of shoes
you had on the night before?

A. Shoes, pants, shirt, I believe.

Q. Then he went in and -- he went into the bathroom area and looked
into the bathroom area, did he not?

A. I don't think so. I don't remember that.

Q. You don't have a recollection of testifying to that before?

A. I don't think so.

Q. How long was Fuhrman in your room?

A. Hum, between approximately minute to two minutes.

Q. Two minutes to ask you the questions and to give the test?

A. To do -- I was at the doorway while this was all happening.

Q. He got into your room?

A. He's in my room.

Q. He inspected your clothes, did he not, true?

A. I showed him, right.

Q. And he looked around your room, did he not?

A. I don't know for sure if he was walking around. But he definitely
stood with me and gave me that test and talked to me.

Q. And he definitely required you to get your boots that you had been
wearing the night before so he could look at them, he definitely
required you to get your pants?

A. Um-hum.

Q. And he definitely required you to get your shirt, isn't that true?

A. Right. It was on that chair and then, photo, everything was laying
right there.

Q. And when he was asking about whether or not you used any drugs, he
went into the bathroom, did he not?

A. I don't think he did, no.

Q. Now, in terms of your -- after you had been interrogated by
Fuhrman, then there was a period of time that elapsed and the other
officers came back down the concrete walkway with Arnelle, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And they came down from Arnelle's room and walked -- I guess it's
west, down here, picked you up and you all went into the house, true?

A. True (indicating to Exhibit 116.)

Q. And what door did you go into?

A. We all went into this door.

Q. Okay. And that's the door that you all went into, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And actually there was four officers and two of you, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, in terms of your particular conversation with Mark Fuhrman,
you told him about the thumps, didn't you?

A. I think I might have said that to him and -- I was saying
everything so I imagine that must have been part of it too, yes.

Q. Mr. Kaelin, you in fact told him exactly where they came from, did
you not, where you thought they had come from?

A. I think I told them I heard thumps behind my bed.

Q. In fact, you testified in this courtroom today when I asked you
questions, that they came right behind your bed, didn't you?

A. Um-hum. Yes.

Q. In fact, you testified on two other occasions they came behind,
right near the air conditioner, which is a good five to six feet away,
isn't that true?

A. Just behind my bed.

Q. Let me read from your grand jury testimony, page 69, line 5 through
8.

MR. PETROCELLI: Hold on, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: May I?

MR. PETROCELLI: What's the page number?

MR. BAKER: 69. And then we'll go to the preliminary hearing at 105.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading.)

Question: The area on the wall where you heard that thump -- those
thumps, was that near to the air conditioning unit? Answer: Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Could you read the whole answer.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading.) Also, the picture moved.

MR. BAKER: Preliminary hearing, 105, line 11.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) (Reading.)

Question: Was it near the air conditioning unit that the thumps seemed
to come from? Answer: Yes.

Now, that was your testimony on June 20, 1994 and July 5, 1994,
correct, sir?

A. Correct.

Q. And now it's five to six feet away behind where you were on the bed
so that you could feel the vibration, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, Mr. Fuhrman was told about what you then believed the location
of the thumps were and the fact that you felt that the thumps had
occurred on the night -- early morning hours, rather, of June 13,
1994, true?

A. If I told them that, I possibly had said it to them during the
interview, yes.

Q. You were trying to tell him everything that you thought would
assist in any way, shape or form, the police, in what they were
attempting to do, correct?

A. Correct. I think I talked to Vannatter more in the bar area.

Q. Now, you did of course -- now, the alarm -- you had actually gone
around and set the alarm, right, when Mr. Simpson had called the prior
evening?

A. From the call waiting?

Q. Yes, sir.

A. Yes.

Q. And you had dutifully set the alarm and watched the alarm indicator
light change, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And your recollection is you just walked right in that back
entrance, where there's no alarm pad and there's no lock?

A. Arnelle was leading, and I think they -- she had a lot of keys on
her. That's what I remember, her leading and all the officers
following in with me.

Q. Do you recall going out around the driveway and going in the front
door on the morning of June 13 so that the alarm could be disalarmed?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection.

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Assumes facts not in evidence that that's the only way
it could be disalarmed.

THE COURT: Overruled. That's not the question.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, then, you're in the house in that bar area, and
although you've been talking to Detective Fuhrman for a period of time
in your room, you then were interrogated by Mr. Vannatter, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you remained in the bar area, which is that little semicircular
in my rather archaic drawing on that exhibit, true?

A. True.

Q. And Arnelle and the other detectives, with the exception of Mark
Fuhrman, were in the kitchen, correct?

A. I was there with Vannatter. I didn't know everybody who was in the
other room, but at periods I would go into the other one because I
asked if I knew where keys were, but everybody was there together.

Q. Your interrogation took place out here in the den area, and there's
a dining room area that separates that den area from the kitchen area,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And in that kitchen area is where -- when you were transported or
moved from the den that's where you went to see the other detectives,
correct?

A. At that bar area.

Q. From the bar area to the nook area?

A. Yeah. I stayed -- when he interviewed me I sat at the bar stool
facing him. I didn't -- I couldn't see into the kitchen.

Q. And do you -- you don't know where Mark Fuhrman went when you
entered the house, do you?

A. I don't know. I can't answer that, no.

Q. And when you went in and were looking for keys and that sort of
thing, you saw a Detective Lange and Detective Phillips in the kitchen
area, but you never saw Mark Fuhrman, did you?

A. I don't know for sure.

Q. Now, the interview -- that interview with Vannatter lasted about 20
minutes, did it not?

A. I can't give you an exact time. I know there was an interview. I
can't put a time on it.

Q. And from 6 to 6 -- oh, well, strike that.

You never saw Mark Fuhrman after he left you when you entered the
house, the main house in Rockingham, isn't that true?

A. I don't know for sure.

Q. Now, I want to ask you a couple questions. After the interview that
you had in the house with Vannatter and after the interview you had in
your room with Fuhrman, you then gave a subsequent interview at 1:30
to Officers Carr and Tippin, that we've alluded to earlier today,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you went to the police station to give that one?

A. Yes.

Q. And that was a pretty formal proceeding, and you were aware that
this was a serious matter because you had been transported from the
house to the police station, correct?

A. I knew something was up. I had never been in something like this
before when I was in the room.

Q. You indicated to Mr. Petrocelli when he was talking to you about
being in the -- in the foyer/kitchen, when you were looking for a
better flashlight, that you didn't see Mr. Simpson cut, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And I take it that in order to answer that question and not to
mislead this jury you then had in fact looked at Mr. Simpson's hand or
hands, true?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to object to the preamble of that question.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: Argumentative and improper.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you look at his hands?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. You mean you answered the question that you didn't know whether or
not Mr. Simpson was cut, and you never looked at either of his hands?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. I didn't ask if he was cut, I asked if he
saw blood.

THE COURT: You may answer.

A. That I did not see blood.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you see any evidence of cuts on Mr. Simpson's
hands?

MR. PETROCELLI: Lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Not that I was aware of.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And it was approximately 11 o'clock on the night of
June 12, correct?

A. Approximately, yes.

Q. Now, also, when you were asked by Mr. Petrocelli about this
inspection that you and O.J. Simpson were going to do, he was going to
go one way and you were going to go another way?

A. Yes.

Q. Remember that?

Mr. Simpson had suggested to you if you were going to circle the house
that you go to the south side and down the south side of the garage,
right?

A. I was going to go that way, he was going to go the other way.

Q. So Mr. Simpson would have been directing you, had he known, to the
exact area where the glove was purportedly found on the evening of
June 12, 1994, correct?

A. Well, he was just directing me to go one way and him the other way.
We were going to end up in the back.

Q. He directed you to go around this way to the area where the glove
was purportedly found by Mark Fuhrman on June 13, 1994, true?

A. Right around that way.

Q. Now, the issue of the time period of the thumps, you had a
conversation with Rachel Ferrara about that, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. She testified that the time period of the thumps, when you told it
to her, was 10:40, didn't she?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you have any conversations with her about
whether she was going to be called?

MR. PETROCELLI: I move that that be stricken from the record.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did you have any conversation with Rachel Ferrara
that she was going to be called by the plaintiffs in this case?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You have any conversation with Mr. Petrocelli
whether or not he was going to call Rachel Ferrara to testify as to
what time you told her on the telephone the thumps were?

MR. PETROCELLI: Also irrelevant.

THE COURT: Strike it as calling for hearsay.

MR. BAKER: With Mr. Petrocelli, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Yep.

MR. BAKER: I think it goes to bias.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, did you review the testimony of Rachel Ferrara
in terms of what time she said the thumps occurred at the criminal
trial?

A. No.

Q. Have you had any conversation with her, you can answer this yes or
no, since the criminal trial as to what time she believes you told her
those thumps occurred?

A. No.

Q. And you've had numerous, numerous conversations with Mr. Petrocelli
and members of his firm about what time those thumps occurred, right?

A. Not numerous, no.

Q. Well, how many, 20?

A. No.

Q. You talked --

A. The meetings I told you about in the beginning, that's the only
time we had talks.

Q. You talked to him for eight hours before you ever had your
deposition taken, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you consider yourself part of the plaintiffs' team, don't you?

A. I don't think I'm on anybody's team.

Q. You had lunch and breakfast with them, you've been over at their
hotel, have you not?

A. Yes.

Q. You've been up in the suite, have you not?

A. Yes.

Q. You've never been one place for the defense have you, sir, not one?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI: Should I begin, Your Honor?

THE COURT: You've got to finish.

MR. PETROCELLI: I can't finish in 10 minutes.

THE COURT: Do the best you can.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Has Mr. Baker ever invited you to his hotel?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: I don't have a hotel.

Q. Has he ever invited you to his office?

A. No.

Q. Has he ever called you?

A. No.

Q. Has any member of the defense team ever talked to you?

A. No.

Q. Have they ever called you to say we want to interview you to get to
the truth?

A. No.

Q. Not once?

A. No.

Q. This bathroom window Mr. Baker just asked you about, does it have a
screen on it?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. Did you ever remove the screen?

A. No.

Q. You ever see it removed?

A. No, I don't think so.

Q. Was the screen on there June 12 and June 13, 1994?

A. I believe so.

Q. Now, Mr. Baker asked you questions about --

MR. PETROCELLI: Steve, put this on the Elmo.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) He asked you questions about what you told Mr.
Shapiro when you were first interviewed about when you came back from
McDonald's, and he said you told Mr. Shapiro you got back at 10
o'clock, remember that?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Could we have an exhibit, please.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's the Shapiro interview, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Can we have an exhibit.

MR. PETROCELLI: Next in order, it's page 20, it's line 17.

THE CLERK: 2200.

MR. PETROCELLI: 2200, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put that on the Elmo. See if you can blow up
that paragraph.

(The instrument herein described as a page from a transcript was
marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2200.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you read what it says there. (Reading.)

And I imagine the time that we got home was about 9:40, 9:45.

Do you see that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Is that what you told Mr. Shapiro?

A. Yes.

Q. And how did you come up with those times?

A. I was just going approximately.

Q. Okay. And that was the next day, wasn't it, or two days later?

A. Yes.

Q. You gave the interview on the 14th of June?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in fact, when we looked at your cell phone records, what was
the time that you got back?

A. The regular phone record, it was 9:37.

Q. Okay. You were off five, ten minutes?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, let's go to the next page.

You were asked what time you heard these noises, these infamous noises
against the wall, right?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: I think it's too tight, Steve. Can you back that up.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) These are O.J. Simpson's lawyers asking you,
right?

A. Correct.

Q. The first lawyers really to ask you these questions, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you said the time now was about 10:40, 10:50. Did you
tell them that?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. How did you come up with that time?

A. I estimated again.

Q. So you said 10:40, 10:50. Why did you give two numbers?

A. Because I couldn't -- I had no watch on, I couldn't give an exact
time.

Q. Now, you were asked at the criminal trial about the length of time
after you got -- after -- You were on the phone with Rachel Ferrara,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you hear the noises, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you get off the phone and you testified today that -- How long
a period of time was it from when you got off the phone -- from when
you heard the noises until you got off the phone?

A. About two to three minutes.

Q. At the criminal trial, do you recall giving the following
testimony?

Page 19, 876, line 3. (Reading.) And what -- how long did you speak to
her --

MS. BLUESTEIN: Can I have a moment to get the reference name?

MR. PETROCELLI: Absolutely. Right here. 19876 criminal trial
testimony. You got it?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

And how long did you speak to her after you heard the thumps on the
wall?

Answer: You know, two to three minutes.

Is that the testimony you gave?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Okay. What is this -- let's look at the preliminary hearing page
106.

MR. PETROCELLI: Mr. Baker, line 25.

MR. BAKER: Got it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

Question: Now, you hung up the phone how long after you heard the
thumps?

Answer: About two to three minutes. Pretty -- Pretty fast I hung up
the phone.

Is that your testimony?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Is that accurate?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Let's try one more. Grand jury, page 87.

(Page displayed on Elmo.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you fix that, Steven?

MR. FOSTER: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

Question: How long after hearing the thumps did you --

MR. PETROCELLI: I can't read it. Got to back up a little bit.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

Did you hang up the phone?

Answer: Five minutes after I heard the thumps. It was pretty fast. I
mean, within one to five minutes.

Is that an estimate you gave at that time?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Is there any doubt in your mind that there was just a few minutes
that elapsed from the time that you heard those noises until the time
that you hung up the phone?

A. No.

Q. Is there any doubt in your mind that it was under a minute from the
time that you got off the phone until the time that you saw that
limousine driver?

A. No.

Q. When you were speaking with the officers on the morning of June 13,
Detective Phillips, Vannatter, Lange and Fuhrman; do you recall Mr.
Baker asking you some questions about that?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you tell them everything about Mr. Simpson's whereabouts
between 9:30 and 11?

A. I don't think so, no.

Q. Did they ask you questions about Mr. Simpson's whereabouts between
9:30 and 11?

A. It might have been with Vannatter. I'm not positive

Q. But did you -- Did you tell them that you went and investigated the
-- the area behind the south wall?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell Mark Fuhrman that you had investigated the area behind
the south wall?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell anybody that you had gone back there to investigate?

A. No.

Q. When you were with Mr. Simpson on the evening of June 12, before he
left to go to the airport, did you examine his hands?

A. No.

Q. Did you touch his hands?

A. No.

Q. Did you look at his fingers?

A. No.

Q. At any time did you see him take a tissue or a napkin or a towel
and dab blood and throw it away?

A. No.

Q. Now, Mr. Baker showed you some testimony from prior proceedings
where you said that you heard the thumps, quote, near -- end of
quotes, near the air conditioner. Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you believe that where you heard the thumps behind your head on
the wall is near the air conditioner?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. By the way, Mr. Baker didn't ask you about this, but when you were
in the Rockingham house in the morning with the police officers, after
they spoke to you, they then exited out of the house, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. And did they point out anything to you, that you should not
step on as you were walking out the foyer?

A. Yes.

Q. What did they point out to you?

A. There were blood drops.

Q. Where were those blood drops?

A. On the foyer floor.

Q. What time was this?

A. About approximately 7:30 I believe.

Q. In the morning?

A. Yes.

Q. Baker showed you that exhibit that he didn't like where you went in
the back of the house -- I'm not going to bother putting it up to save
time.

You know the one we're talking about?

A. Right, the big one.

Q. Where you and the officers and Arnelle went in that back door; you
know what I'm talking about?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you know if there's a delay on that door such that when you open
the door, the alarm doesn't go off because there's a delay, and you
have to go to a keypad and deactivate the alarm?

A. I don't know for sure.

Q. Mr. Baker asked you some questions about the first time that Mr.
Simpson had a conversation with you about setting the alarm.

Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, just to clarify this one point, when was the first time you
had that conversation?

A. It was when he was ready to leave for the airport.

Q. And where did take conversation occur?

A. By the doorway, outside.

Q. Okay. So it was not on the telephone later on?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Now, when you were first interviewed, by the way, by the
police, I mean you were pretty frightened?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Objection, leading Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: I think this is foundation.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Baker elicited that you were scared, you
were frightened, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the police asked you very detailed questions like you were
asked later on in depositions and -- I mean court proceedings?

MR. BAKER: Leading.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you answer the questions that were put to
you?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Did you withhold anything that they wanted to know, that they asked
you about?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Mr. Baker showed you some notes that an officer took when he
first interviewed you, and then he asked you questions about those
notes.

I'd I like to go over that.

Now, you were interviewed by Tippin and Carr, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And this was in the police station?

A. Yes.

Q. And the detectives were asking you questions and taking notes,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Did they show you their notes at the end of their interview?

A. No, I never saw those.

Q. Did he say here, Mr. Kaelin, look at these, read them over, and
swear by these --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. That's leading and argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. Did they show you the notes?

A. No.

Q. Did they ask you to review and approve the notes?

A. No.

Q. Did they ask you -- what did they -- Did you know what they wrote
down in their notes?

A. No.

Q. Baker pointed in their notes that you did not see -- the officers
wrote O.J. entered through the front.

Now, they were talking about when you guys came back from McDonald's;
do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, Mr. Baker did not show you this document, which is a
typewritten --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me show you this document which you've not seen
before this. Mr. Baker, this a typewritten transcript.

MR. BAKER: I'm not going to take your representation for that for five
seconds.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'd like to mark this as exhibit next in
order.

THE COURT: Okay. I take it you're not going to finish today?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm actually just a few questions away unless there's
going to be recross.

THE COURT: All right. Show them where you're going to --

MR. PETROCELLI: 201.

MR. BAKER: There's no foundation for this document with this witness.

MR. PETROCELLI: Business record.

MR. BAKER: Business record?

MR. PETROCELLI: I seem to have heard that one before, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect this is a typewritten interview
of Mr. Kaelin's interview, time, 6/13/94, at West LA Police Station,
Officers Tippin and Carr.

(The instrument herein described as A Typewritten Interview of Brian
Kaelin on June 13, 1994 was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit 2201.)

Q. Let me show you this interview that was typed up.

Does that interview that was typed up say anything in there about your
telling the officers that Mr. Simpson went into the house after
McDonald's?

A. I'm going to need time to read it.

Q. Want to just look it over.

MR. BAKER: If it doesn't, we'll take your representation of that, Mr.
Petrocelli, to speed things up.

A. No, I don't see it.

Q. Okay. You won't see it if you read it carefully.

MR. BAKER: We don't need your argument, Mr. Petrocelli.

THE COURT: That's stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Have you ever received any money for
information about this case?

A. No.

Q. Have you ever been paid a dime for information about the facts of
this case?

A. No.

Q. Have you ever been offered any money?

A. Yes.

Q. How much money have you been offered to talk about the facts of
this case?

MR. BAKER: Objection, relevance, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Between 500 to a million dollars.

Q. And you turned it down?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, this book -- and by the way, was one of them an offer
from "The National Enquirer" for $300,000?

MR. BAKER: Objection, leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. Did you turn it down?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, this book that Mr. Baker was talking about, you sat for
interviews for a book?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were going to write a book with a guy named Mark Elliott?

A. Correct.

Q. Did you go through with the book?

A. No.

Q. Did Elliott publish the book without your permission?

A. Yes.

Q. Are you suing him now?

A. Yes.

Q. And why didn't you go forward with this book?

MR. BAKER: Objection, relevancy.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Does that book that is out have your
endorsement or sponsorship or authority in any way?

A. No.

Q. Did you have the opinion that that book was too sensationalized?

MR. BAKER: I object.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: That's it, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: Just very quickly, very quickly

I got the look, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay. Recross.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER:

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, you told Mark Elliott in that interview, when
you gave that interview, that you thought the pictures moved, the
thumps occurred at 10:40, right, about 10:40?

A. I possibly said about, yes.

Q. And you then testified in the criminal trial that you remained on
the phone with Rachel Ferrara for another two to three minutes. At
approximately 10:43 to 10:44 is when you exited your room, correct?

A. No.

Q. Let me read you from page 19879, starting at line 9 through 20.
(Reading.)

Question: You indicated that you heard the thumps at 9:40 to 9:45?

Answer: Not at that time, no, it was 10.

Question: I'm sorry, 10:40 to 10:45. Thank you, sir. And you remained
on the phone with Rachel Ferrara for another two to three minutes?

Answer: Yes. So at approximately what time was it that you exited your
room to go out to the pathway?

Answer: So it was about two to three minutes after that time 10:43,
10:44.

That's what you testified to at the criminal trial, correct, sir?

A. That was an approximation, yes.

Q. And by the way, you gave this interview, the one that has the
handwritten notes from Officers Carr and Tippin, and they were writing
things down as you were talking to them, weren't they?

A. I think so, I'm not positive.

Q. And were you aware in any of your conversations with Mr.
Petrocelli, in preparation for this testimony in this courtroom, under
penalty of perjury, that Mr. Tippin is now employed by them?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, it's false and it's irrelevant.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Pardon?

THE COURT: Sustained. It's not relevant. It's not relevant insofar as
this witness' state of mind is concerned. May be relevant otherwise,
but not insofar as this witness's state of mind.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, on the 13th, when you were at Mr. Simpson's
home, after you had come back from Grant Kramer's house and gone into
Mr. Simpson's place, you recognized the cut on his finger, correct?

A. The tissue, and there was blood seeping.

Yes, I did.

Q. You hadn't seen that at all when you were with Mr. Simpson in the
foyer, you hadn't seen it out -- when the coach lights were on in the
entranceway, and you hadn't seen it when you were in the kitchen,
correct?

A. I hadn't seen it.

MR. BAKER: You want the last word?

MR. PETROCELLI: The last word is I'd like to move 2200 and 2201 in
evidence.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2200 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2201 was
received in evidence.)

MR. BAKER: 2198 and 2199 into evidence, as well.

THE COURT: Received.

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 2198 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 2199 was
received in evidence.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

THE COURT: You are excused.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you for your patience.

THE COURT: Tomorrow, 8:30, ladies and gentlemen.

(At 4:40 P.M. an adjournment was taken until Wednesday, November 20,
1996 at 8:30 A.M.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-6</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B008-72</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov20.html 199.29.97.40 19970108053938 text/html 213563
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:49:04 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 20:24:15 GMT
Content-length: 213370
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/20/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 20, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1996
8:40 A. M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: The Court will call the matter of the motion to quash by
Schiller.

MS. SAGER: Good morning, Your Honor. Kelly Sager on behalf of Lawrence
Schiller.

I'm moving over here just because there's no room at counsel table.
I'll just stand over here.

THE COURT: Is Mr. Schiller here?

MS. SAGER: Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Schiller is here.

THE COURT: Okay.

Would you come forward.

Swear Mr. Schiller.

THE CLERK: Sir, please raise your right hand to be sworn.

LAWRENCE SCHILLER, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was
duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Sir, if you would, please state and spell your name for the
record.

THE WITNESS: Lawrence J. Schiller, L-A-W-R-E-N-C-E, S-C-H-I-L-L-E-R.

THE COURT: Mr. Schiller, you're the object of a subpoena duces tecum
with regards to a certain audio tape, and there's been a motion filed
on your behalf to quash that subpoena. And in conjunction with it,
your attorney filed declarations to the effect of certain factual
representations with regards to that tape, which I would like to make
inquiry of you.

First of all, there's a representation that the tape was given to you
by Mr. Kardashian; is that correct?

THE WITNESS: It was given to me in a group of many tapes that I was
acquiring for my research.

THE COURT: I didn't ask you that.

THE WITNESS: I'm sorry.

It was not physically given to me; it was within a stack of many
tapes.

THE COURT: Given to you by?

THE WITNESS: Mr. Robert Kardashian.

THE COURT: Okay.

And your attorney also represents that you informed her that there was
only one copy of the tape; is that right?

THE WITNESS: One copy, that's correct.

THE COURT: Not a copy, but an original?

THE WITNESS: There is an original and one copy.

THE COURT: Both of them are in your possession?

THE WITNESS: Yes, sir.

THE COURT: Okay.

And could you physically describe the tape, what it looks like.

THE WITNESS: The original?

THE COURT: Yeah.

THE WITNESS: The original is a microcassette, of the small size.

THE COURT: Okay.

THE WITNESS: The copy is a digitized copy that was made by myself to
reduce some background noise, hiss sounds.

THE COURT: So far as you know, there are no other copies?

THE WITNESS: That is correct.

THE COURT: Okay. Thank you.

You may step down.

(Witness complies.)

THE COURT: Mr. Gelblum.

MR. GELBLUM: Yes, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I've read the moving and opposing papers. Anything else you
want to add?

MR. GELBLUM: No, Your Honor.

THE COURT: It seems to me that this item is within the matter of
privilege. And the reason for my asking questions of Mr. Schiller was
to ascertain whether there were any other copies and whether or not I
should hold defense in contempt for not producing.

And it would appear from testimony, that they have no other copies. I
don't see how I can hold them in contempt.

MR. GELBLUM: I wasn't asking to hold them in contempt.

When we investigated further, we determined that Mr. Schiller, as far
as we can tell, does have the only copies.

We ask that you compel Mr. Schiller to produce his copies. I don't
believe, as stated in our papers, that it is within the privilege.

THE COURT: Well, unfortunately, the weight of the juris prudence in
the United States seems to be against you.

MR. GELBLUM: Well, Your Honor, I'm not sure if you're referring to the
First Amendment privilege or the California shield.

THE COURT: All of them.

MR. GELBLUM: The California shield, there's no authority, based on the
statute, does not apply to book authors at all. Plus, the magazines,
newspapers and other periodicals, the express language of the statute,
Ms. Sager has not cited a single case applying the California law for
a book author.

The only cases cited and the only ones we're aware of any shield to
the California law is the First Amendment case that is a qualified
privilege.

The privilege is overcome, as Ms. Sager's papers concede, by showing
of there being only the one copy, there being no other sources, and it
being highly relevant and material to the case. And I think it's
obvious, given a tape recorded by the defendant five days after the
murders, discussing his situation at that moment, could not be more
material and relevant to this case. That overcomes the privilege.

THE COURT: Well, I don't think that overcomes the privilege. So since
the defense has had an opportunity to take something up on a writ --
here is your opportunity.

MR. GELBLUM: You can give Ms. Sager that opportunity; she probably has
more time.

MS. SAGER: I'll defer to Mr. Gelblum.

MR. GELBLUM: Thank you.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I would just say that it seems to me that the
accusation was made that we were withholding a tape in this courtroom.

The least Mr. Gelblum could have done is file a declaration
withdrawing the accusation that we had a tape and withheld it, because
we didn't have a tape; we didn't withhold it. And I think that was the
very least he could have done after the accusation was made in court
last week.

MR. GELBLUM: Mr. Baker has quite a bit of gall. After we demonstrated
in our papers the discovery responses, saying there was no tape ever
made.

MR. BAKER: That is not true.

THE COURT: Well, looking at the history of the paper wars that have
been conducted in this case, I feel that the defense can be gracious
and take it with a large grain of salt.

MS. SAGER: Your Honor, may Mr. Schiller be excused?

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MS. SAGER: May Mr. Schiller be excused?

THE COURT: Unless he wants to hang around.

MR. GELBLUM: Your Honor, just so -- we may want to recall him before
the jury; he's not excused permanently in the case.

THE COURT: If he's a witness --

MR. GELBLUM: He's our witness.

THE COURT: He is ordered to be here under subpoena, yes.

MR. GELBLUM: Thank you.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Good morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Call your next witness.

MR. PETROCELLI: We call Allan Park.

ALLAN PARK, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was duly
sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this Court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Please be seated.

And if you would, please state and spell your name for the record.

THE WITNESS: Allan Park, A-L-L-A-N, P-A-R-K.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. Morning, Mr. Park.

A. Morning.

Q. In June of 1994, where were you employed?

A. For Town and Country Limousine.

Q. What were you doing?

A. Driving limousines, chauffer.

Q. Who was your boss?

A. Dale St. John.

Q. Let's go to June 12, 1994, okay?

You were working for Town and Country?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Okay.

And did you get an assignment that day?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you remember what day of the week it was?

A. I think it was the day before, Saturday.

Q. And the assignment for -- Was for which day?

A. For Sunday.

Q. And who gave you the assignment?

A. Dale St. John.

Q. What was the assignment?

A. The assignment was to pick up Mr. Simpson from 360 Rockingham.

Q. Was that the extent of the instructions you got?

A. No. The rest of the instructions were, pick him up at 10:45, have
him at LAX for an 11:30 flight on American Arlines.

Q. Anything else?

A. No.

Q. What time did you leave your house?

A. It was about 9:45.

Q. P.M., right?

A. P.M.

Q. What kind of car were you driving?

A. A stretch limousine.

Q. What color?

A. White.

Q. Did Mr. St. John give you any directions to Mr. Simpson's house?

A. No, he didn't.

Q. And how did you determine how to get to Mr. Simpson's house?

A. I looked at a Thomas Guide before I left.

Q. Had you ever been to Mr. Simpson's house before?

A. No, sir.

Q. Had you ever driven Mr. Simpson before?

A. No.

Q. What route -- where were you coming from?

A. Torrance.

Q. And what route did you take from Torrance to Mr. Simpson's house?

A. I took the 405 north to Sunset, which I made a left onto Sunset,
traveling west, and made a right heading north up Rockingham.

Q. Okay.

And as you were turning north on Rockingham, did you have in your mind
the street address you were looking for?

A. Yes.

Q. And what number did you have in mind?

A. 360.

Q. And how did you go about locating 360 North Rockingham as you were
driving north on Rockingham?

A. By looking at the addresses on the curb.

Q. Okay.

And at some point did you notice the addresses getting closer to 360?

A. Yes. First I determined which side the even numbers were on, and I
proceeded up the street, looking at address numbers.

Q. And did you have good vision?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

A. Not great.

Q. Were you wearing glasses?

A. No.

Q. Are you required to wear glasses?

A. Not on my driver's license, no.

Q. And did you have any problems seeing that night?

A. No.

Q. What kind of night was it?

A. What kind of --

Q. Was it raining?

A. No, it was a clear night.

Q. Clear.

What was the temperature, if you remember?

A. I don't remember that.

Q. Did you have your window open, driver's-side window --

A. Not --

Q. -- as you were looking at the numbers?

A. -- not that I recall.

Q. Okay.

Now, as you approached the addresses closer to 360, describe how it
was that you came upon Mr. Simpson's house.

A. I was looking at the addresses on the curb and noticed it was
getting closer to 360. I determined that it was -- I don't remember
the correct address, 322, 320, something like that, figured it would
be a little bit farther, speeded up a little bit, and I finally caught
360 on the curb.

I was going just a little bit too fast, so I slowed down immediately
and noticed that he was on the corner lot, and saw the street Ashford,
and made a right onto Ashford.

Q. Where did you see the number 360 when you saw it for the first
time?

A. On the curb.

Q. And where on the curb?

A. On the curb, next to the driveway.

Q. What driveway?

A. The Rockingham driveway.

Q. And when -- how fast do you think you were going when you saw the
number 360 on the curb next to the Rockingham driveway?

A. I don't remember. Twenty-five miles an hour, maybe.

Q. Is there any doubt in your mind that you saw the number 360?

A. No.

Q. Is that the only way that you knew that that was Mr. Simpson house?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me put up 116 again.

You've seen this exhibit quite a bit.

Can you all see here? I think I might have been blocking your view
yesterday. I'll try to stay out of your way.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 116.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Park, if you want to step down, with the
Court's permission, and just show us -- I know this exhibit doesn't
show Rockingham coming up from Sunset but just show the ladies and
gentlemen of the jury which direction you were coming and where you
saw the 360.

Q. I was traveling north on this, Rockingham here, and the address
would have been right about here. (Indicating.)

Q. On the curb. Okay.

And by the way, you see that vehicle there?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Was a vehicle parked there when you saw 360?

A. No, I didn't see one.

Q. Okay.

And you then went up to the corner of Ashford and did what?

A. I came up to the corner. I decided that -- I figured out that he
was on the corner lot, and I came up to Ashford, made a right, because
as I was coming down Ashford, I noticed there was another gate right
here on Ashford, so I proceeded on down the street. Would have been
maybe off the screen.

There's another driveway up above here (indicating) and pulled into
the driveway and made a U-turn and came back and parked just about
right here (indicating).

Q. Okay.

Now, when you when you made that -- when you were approaching
Rockingham and you saw 360, you saw the gate, too; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Did you know that there was even another gate on Ashford?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. You turned the corner and you drove down Ashford?

A. That's correct.

Q. When did you first learn there even was an Ashford gate?

A. After I made the right-hand turn and came up on the gate.

Now, I was driving a little bit slower and checking out the property.

Q. Now, when you said you made a U-turn and you parked -- right?

A. Correct.

Q. I'll get back to times in a minute. But I just want to sort of get
the general layout here.

When you parked that car, you parked where, on the other side of the
street?

A. Yes.

Q. Facing what direction?

A. It would be west.

Q. Facing this way (indicating)?

A. Correct.

Q. And had you made a decision at that time to use the Ashford gate
instead of the Rockingham gate?

A. No, I didn't. I still, in my mind, was going to use the Rockingham
gate.

Q. Then why were you parked here if you're going to use the Rockingham
gate?

A. I just -- I parked here because there seemed to be more traffic on
Rockingham, and there was a big, huge space to park.

Q. And about what time do you think it was, Mr. Park, when you saw the
360?

A. That would be --

MR. LEONARD: Your Honor, could we have the witness speak up.

THE COURT: Yes. Would you speak up; it's kind of hard to hear you.

MR. PETROCELLI: You may resume the witness stand, Mr. Park.

(The witness complies.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I think the question was, sir, about what time
was it when you approached the 360?

A. That would have been just around 10:23, 10:24.

Q. And by the way, as a limousine driver, you pay attention to times?

A. Yes, you do.

Q. Why is that?

A. You're just usually on a really tight schedule; you want to make
sure you're on time, you're on time at the house, you're to where
you're supposed to be on time. Just, you pay a lot of attention to
time.

Q. Were you paying close attention on this particular evening to time?

A. Yes. I always do, every --

Q. And you were supposed to be at Mr. Simpson's at what time to pick
him up?

A. 10:45.

Q. And had you been told what time the flight was going to depart LAX?

A. I knew it was around 11:30.

Q. And you didn't get to Mr. Simpson's house at 11:45, [sic] right?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. And you got there, you said, about what time?

A. 10:25.

Q. And why so early?

A. Because I've never been to the house before and I just wanted to
make sure I was on time.

We were also asked to be a few minutes early.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let's put on the television monitor, Steve, 191.

(Exhibit 191 is displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, do you recognize the curb and the number
that you see in Exhibit 191?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Okay.

And what is it?

A. 360.

Q. Is that what you saw when you approached Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And can you point out to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where
you first saw the address of the Rockingham location.

Can you just point it out with your hand, right on the television
monitor.

(The witness complies.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect you're pointing to the white
space painted 360.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And when you were driving up Rockingham, you
were driving in the same direction that that vehicle is facing, right?

A. That is correct.

Q. And your -- So you were sitting in the driver's seat and the 360
was to your right; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, did you see that car parked there at 10:23, 10:24, when you
drove by 360?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No I didn't.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is there any doubt in your mind?

A. No.

Q. To make the record a little clear --

MR. PETROCELLI: You can take this off.

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you were indicating that you came up to
Ashford, you turned right on Ashford, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you said you parked. And just so the record is clear, you
parked on the north side of Ashford, facing west, across from the
Ashford gate?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

After you parked your car there, what did you do?

A. After I parked the car, I noticed I had a few minutes before I had
to actually drive up to the gate, so I got out -- got out of the car,
walked to the back, had a cigarette, got back in and listened to the
radio for a few minutes.

Q. Before you continue, when you say you walked to the back, back of
what?

A. Back of the limousine.

Q. Just stood up -- stood outside the limo?

A. No. I sat on the curb.

Q. Okay.

Behind the car?

A. Behind the car.

Q. And how long did it take to smoke your cigarette?

A. Five, six minutes.

Q. All right.

And during that five or six-minute period, smoking your cigarette, did
you see O.J. Simpson?

A. No.

Q. Did you see O.J. Simpson walking a black dog around the block?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: The last answer -- there's no foundation for the question.

THE COURT: Just a minute.

Overruled.

A. No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And about what time is it, now, that you're
parked on Ashford, smoking your cigarette?

A. What time am I smoking the cigarette, or. . .

Q. Just if you could estimate for us where we are now in the time
line.

A. Just around 10:30, somewhere around there.

Q. Okay.

And after you smoked your cigarette, what did you then do?

A. I got back into the car and listened to the radio.

Q. And what did you do after you listened to the radio?

A. Well, finally, at about 10:40, I started up the car and drove down
to the Rockingham gate.

Q. Okay.

Between the time that you smoked your cigarette and the time that you
started to take off again, during that five- or ten-minute interval,
did you see O.J. Simpson?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. When you were listening to the radio in the car, did you happen to
see what time it was in the car?

A. This -- After I was through smoking the cigarette?

Q. Yes.

A. Yeah. I got back in the car; and it was 10:35.

Q. Now, is there a clock radio in there?

A. Yes, there is.

Q. And you looked at the time?

A. I -- yeah. I used the clock and my watch.

Q. Okay.

So then you -- Why don't you go to Exhibit 116 and explain to the jury
what you did when you got back in the car.

And could you please keep your voice up, so that everyone can hear.

A. Yeah.

(The witness complies.)

I got back into the limousine -- and this was just about 10:39 --
pulled back onto Rockingham, made a left onto Rockingham, drove down
with my window parallel to the gate, looked up the driveway, and was
making a decision if I was going to use this gate or not, now that I
know that there was another one over here (indicating).

I decided that this curve here was too tight to make the turn with the
stretch limousine, just didn't look as easy, so I proceeded to just
back straight up and come into the Ashford gate, with my bumper just
in front of the gate.

Q. Okay.

When you got in the car to go around to Rockingham, what exactly was
your purpose in doing so?

Why did you want to go back to the Rockingham gate?

A. Because all along, I was going to use that gate to drive into.

Q. Okay.

And so as you approached Rockingham, and in particular the Rockingham
gate, are you saying it was your state of mind then that you were
going to park at the gate?

A. Yeah.

Well, it was -- I mean, that was my intentions.

Q. Exactly. That's what I'm asking you.

A. But I checked it out first. I didn't pull straight up to the gate.

Q. How close did you get?

A. I was about in the middle of the street, and my window was just
right here (indicating).

I mean, I don't know how far that is.

Q. Now, did you see the number 360 again?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you see any vehicle parked there at that time, 10:39,
10:40, I think you said?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put up the picture again, 191, on the television
monitor.

(Exhibit 191 displayed.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Now, I know it's hard to see the full width of the
street here.

Is that as wide as it goes?

Can we get more of the driveway?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Can you, using the photograph, Exhibit 191, can
you describe how close to the gate you got, how far you pulled up?

A. Well, it's so hard with this TV.

My window -- my window would have been looking into the gate, so I was
past this area here (indicating). I was looking in this way
(indicating). And like I said, I was halfway out into the street.

It's hard to tell with this.

Q. Okay.

Did you stop your car to assess the situation?

A. Yeah. I came to a complete -- complete stop.

Q. In the street?

A. Yes.

Q. And you turned your head left and looked up the Rockingham
driveway?

A. That's correct.

Q. Did you have a clear field of vision?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Okay.

And did your field of vision, as you were driving up to and stopping,
include this area where the vehicle is parked in the photograph?

A. Yes.

Q. And you did not see that vehicle; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. You made a decision, I think you testified, not to use the
Rockingham entrance?

A. That is correct.

Q. And what did you then decide to do?

A. Like I said, I backed straight up Rockingham, backwards, and made a
left onto Ashford and pulled up into the Ashford driveway, into the
gate.

Q. Now, by the way, when you drove down Rockingham to assess the
situation, and when you stopped in front of the Rockingham gate, did
you see O.J. Simpson?

A. No, I didn't.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number? We need a new one, next in --

THE CLERK: 2202.

MR. PETROCELLI: Marking this as Exhibit 2202.

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled Gates at
Rockingham containing two photographs and diagram of Rockingham
property was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
2202.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I wonder if you could come down once again, Mr.
Park.

You recognize this here as the Rockingham gate? (Indicating.)

A. Yes.

Q. And does that generally represent the view that you had of the
driveway as you assessed the situation whether to use it?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And looking at the letter B, what is that, if you know?

A. That is the Ashford gate.

Q. Okay.

And that's the gate where you parked across the street from --
initially?

A. Correct.

Q. And then that's the gate you decided to use?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, when you came back from your second trip to the Rockingham
gate, you said you backed down Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. You backed down like this, right, using my pen, backing down
Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. In a northerly direction.

And you turned your car this way, easterly?

A. That's correct.

Q. And then you pulled into the Ashford gate?

A. Yes.

Q. And there's a -- you see these metal gates there, right?

A. Yes.

Q. How far up did you go till you didn't -- couldn't go anymore?

A. Inches.

Q. Inches from what?

A. Inches from the gate, from my front bumper.

Q. Facing inward?

A. Facing inward.

Q. And realizing this is taken at a different time of day, this is
late at night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Does that generally represent the field of view that you had as you
were looking --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. That was taken from across the street,
generally, is from --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. I didn't finish my question, Mr. Baker.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Does this represent the -- generally represent
the field of view that you had when you were parked in the car,
looking into the property from the Ashford gate?

MR. BAKER: Leading.

I'm sorry.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yeah. If anything, I had more view.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This is?

A. This is from across the street.

Q. And you were up close?

A. Yes.

Q. When you pulled in, did you turn your car off?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. And what was on in your car? The engine? Anything else?

A. The radio was on low.

Q. Okay.

And the windows closed?

A. No. At this time, my window was down.

MR. BAKER: This is leading, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Open or closed were the windows -- your
windows?

A. Open.

Q. What about the other windows?

A. Closed.

Q. You have a cell phone in the car?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, does the car have to be on for the cell phone to work?

A. The ignition has to be on; the car doesn't have to be running.

Q. Okay.

So when you pulled up to the Ashford gate here, about what time is it
now?

A. 10:40.

Q. Was the gate open or closed?

A. It was closed.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, when you were at the Rockingham gate, in your car,
assessing the situation, could you see the Ashford gate from when you
were?

A. No, I couldn't.

Q. And when you were at the Ashford gate, could you see the Rockingham
gate?

A. No.

Q. Now, could you tell the jury what happened after you pulled up to
the Ashford Street gate.

A. After I pulled up to the gate, I got out of the vehicle, left the
door open, went to the call box, and there's an intercom in there with
a button.

I rang the buzzer. It made a noise, made kind of a loud noise, and
there was no answer.

I repeated pushing the button two or three times before I got back
into the limousine and --

Q. Let me stop you right there. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Just so we can see the sequence, can you put on the
next exhibit, which will be 2203.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of call box at gate
was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2203.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you recognize that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. What is that?

A. That is the call box.

MR. BAKER: That picture doesn't represent the gate as it existed on
June 12.

MR. PETROCELLI: Only directing the attention to the --

MR. BAKER: The gate was clear.

THE COURT: Indicating a call box only.

Go ahead.

MR. PETROCELLI: This picture was taken recently.

And could you let me show Mr. Baker the next pictures.

Mr. Baker, you want to take a look at this.

(Counsel hands photograph to Mr. Baker.)

MR. PETROCELLI: I want to use that for the inside.

MR. BAKER: Who is the guy in the picture?

MR. PETROCELLI: Don't know.

MR. BAKER: Trying to get in your own news show.

MR. PETROCELLI: I should be so lucky.

MR. BAKER: Back it off, Steve, we want to see who's there.

(Laughter.)

(Indicating to photograph with call box open and Mr. Petrocelli in
photograph displayed.)

MR. PETROCELLI: It was all business, believe me.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that the inside of the box?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. And there's no -- did it look like that on that night?

In other words, was it configured that way?

A. Yes.

Q. Where was the button that you would buzz Mr. Simpson, buzz inside
the house?

A. It's --

Q. Can you point to it?

A. This button right here (indicating).

Q. Okay.

And what, would you buzz once, or how would you buzz it?

A. I really don't remember if it was a ringing or a buzzing. I don't
know if it rang. I just remember hitting it two or three times.

Q. And then waiting?

A. And waiting.

Q. Okay.

By the way, let's mark it as the next exhibit in order, which would be
2204.

THE CLERK: What's being marked?

THE COURT: Second photograph of the telephone.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph with close up of call
box open and Mr. Petrocelli in photograph was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2204.)

MR. PETROCELLI: You can take that off.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) All right.

Let me back up a little bit.

When you pulled up to the Rockingham gate as far as you could go, did
you make any observations about the house in front of you; that is,
Mr. Simpson's house?

A. To the Rockingham gate.

Q. When you were pulling up to the Ashford gate?

A. To the Ashford.

MR. BAKER: Objection. Vague and ambiguous, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Well, that's an invitation to lead, I guess. Go ahead.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I guess so.

Did you make any observations about lights being on or off?

A. I noticed that there were no lights on downstairs. I only noticed
one light on upstairs.

Q. Okay.

When you say you noticed there were no lights on downstairs, what
you're saying is that from what you could see, you couldn't see any
lights?

A. From what I could see, no.

Q. Okay.

Sitting there in the car?

A. Sitting in the car at the buzzer.

Q. Not only sitting in the car, you're saying, but getting out of the
car?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And when you got out of the car, you could see right through these
iron bars; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And looking in, could you see the area where Mr. Simpson's -- front of
the house is?

A. Yes.

Q. And you could see rooms that -- lights from the outside?

A. What I thought were rooms.

Q. And you didn't see any lights; is that right?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

That is correct, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

After -- did you have any of your lights on in the -- on the car, your
headlights or, parking lights, or anything like that?

A. I just had the parking lights on.

Q. Okay.

So you were saying before, you buzzed inside the house a couple of
times and you got no answer; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And then what did you do next?

A. I then got back into the limousine and used the cell phone to page
Dale.

Q. And Dale is who?

A. The owner.

Q. Now how long before you paged Dale did you ring into the house and
get no answer?

A. Couple minutes.

Q. So in other words, what you're saying is, that you rang the house
and got no answer; you went in the car and you called Dale?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, why did you call Dale?

A. I called him because I thought nobody was home.

MR. PETROCELLI: Like to refer to the next Exhibit, this is 198.

(The instrument herein referred to as Copy of document entitled calls
made by Allan Park, June 12, 1994, was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 198.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You recognize what this exhibit is?

A. Yes.

Q. And what is it, sir?

A. The cell phone records of the night.

Q. Cell phone records from your limousine cell phone?

A. Correct.

Q. And the call -- it shows the calls that were coming in and going
out on that evening?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, I direct your attention to the first entry.

Does that represent the -- the time when you called Mr. St. John's
pager?

A. Yes.

Q. And what time does it say up there?

Could you --

A. 10:43, and 44 seconds.

Q. And you paged Mr. St. John?

A. Correct.

Q. And so what time, based on the entry of 10:43 and 44 seconds, do
you think it was when you first buzzed into the Simpson residence and
got no answer?

A. I didn't understand that.

Q. In other words, using this as a point of reference, what time was
it?

A. 10:40 to 10:43.

Q. Is when you were buzzing?

A. Yeah.

Q. Okay.

And what happened after you hung up your cell phone upon paging Dale?

A. I got back out of the car and I proceeded to ring the buzzer a few
more times.

Q. Okay.

Now, we see that your call with Dale ended at 10:44 and 24 seconds
right, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And your next call began at 10:46 and 30 seconds, right?

A. Correct.

Q. So you buzzed into the Simpson residence between 10:44 and 10:46;
is that what you're saying?

A. Correct.

MR. BAKER: Objection. Leading. He just testified --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Why did you call your mother?

A. I called my mom to get Dale's house phone number I left at the
house. Instead of his pager number, I wanted to call his house direct,
just to see if he was home, if he wasn't answering his business line.

Q. Did you reach your mother?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Did you get Dale's phone number?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And after you got Dale's phone number from your mother, what did
you do?

A. I then called Dale's home.

Q. With the phone number you just got?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, can you explain what the -- back up.

Looking at this exhibit here of the cell phone calls, can you tell the
jury when you then called Dale's home with the number you got from
your mother? Can you point to the entry?

A. Here (indicating).

Q. And what does it say?

A. 10:49:07.

Q. Can you explain to the jury what the two entries are in white at
10:48:13 and 10:48:38.

MR. BAKER: Objection. Foundation, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I figured those would be Dale calling me while I'm on the
phone with my mom.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

And after you dialed Dale's home at 10:49:07, what happened?

Did you get an answer?

A. No. I let it ring for quite a while.

Q. And can you tell from the beginning and ending point of the call,
approximately how long you rung that phone call, letting it ring?

A. Minute.

Q. Looks like -- looks like 59 seconds, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

What did you then do? You got off the phone at 10:50:06 p.m. from
calling Dale and getting no answer, right?

A. Correct.

Q. What did you then do when you got off the phone at 10:50:06 p.m.,
not having received an answer from Dale's home?

A. I got back out of the limousine and proceeded to ring the buzzer a
few more times.

Q. Okay.

And can you tell by looking at the next three entries from your cell
phone, what those mean? There's 10:49:27, 10:49:48 and 10:50:39?

A. These two, Dale was obviously calling me back and I was on the
phone, calling his house.

Q. The first two entries, you were on the phone dialing him while he's
calling you?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And what about that third one in white, 10:50:39 p.m.?

A. The third one was not answered because I was outside, ringing the
buzzer, and I never heard the phone ring.

Q. It's referring to the line that says "incoming call rang but not
answered"?

A. Correct.

Q. At 10:50:39 to 10:51:49?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't answer that phone call?

A. No.

Q. Why not?

A. I didn't hear it.

Q. Where were you?

A. I was outside, ringing the intercom.

Q. Did you get an answer this third time you were ringing the
intercom?

A. No.

Q. What did you do next?

Q. As I was was standing next to the buzzer, waiting for an answer,
for somebody, I then heard the phone ringing inside the car, and
grabbed the phone. And it was Dale.

Q. From looking at the cell phone records, can you tell the jury when
it was that you picked up that call from Dale?

A. 10:52:17.

Q. And when you heard the phone ring, did you get into the car to
answer it?

A. Yes.

Q. Were you sitting in the car?

A. Yes.

Q. Was your was your radio still on?

A. Very low.

Q. And was the door open or closed, if you remember?

A. Open.

Q. Okay.

Q. And you began a conversation with Dale St. John?

A. That is correct.

Q. And that conversation ended at what point in time, based on the
cell phone records?

A. At 10:55:12 p.m.

Q. Okay.

You may resume the witness stand.

So you're on the phone with Dale For about three minutes, right?

A. Correct.

Q. What -- relate your conversation with Dale.

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to the hearsay.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's subsequent conduct, Your Honor, under 1250.

THE COURT: All right. Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I told Dale that I didn't think anybody was home, said
there was a light on upstairs.

He told me that -- he said O.J. usually runs late, go ahead and wait
until 11:15. If he's not there by then, go ahead and come on home.

He asked me if there was a light on, and what looked to be skylights
over towards the garage area, little pantry -- little pantry area. He
said -- he asked me if the lights were on in there. He said he usually
watches TV in there.

I told him no there's no lights on in there.

And somewhere in the conversation, that's when I saw the white male
come out from behind the -- from the back of the house.

Q. Okay.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I move to strike everything that Dale St. John
said because that is not subsequent conduct.

THE COURT: Stricken:

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When the -- The person appeared -- and I'll
show the layout in a second, but I want to focus on the timing right
now, okay?

When the person appeared, did you notice where that person came from?

A. From what I --

Q. The first person who appeared?

A. From what I noticed, from the back of the house.

Q. And he appeared where, in terms of your field of view?

You're looking straight ahead, in from the car?

A. Yes.

Q. And where did this person appear?

A. To my --

Q. So to your right, to your left?

A. To the left of me, on the edge of the driveway.

Q. Okay.

And can you describe to the jury this person whom you saw appear?

A. It was a blond-hair male, five-ten, 170 pounds.

Q. What did you then say to Dale St. John, without telling us what he
said?

A. I said to him that somebody's here.

Q. And did you say anything else?

A. Not that I remember.

Q. Okay.

From the moment that you saw that person appear to your left on the
property inside the gates, to the end of the call with Dale St. John,
about how much time elapsed?

A. Thirty seconds.

Q. So, looking at the cell phone records, if you got off the phone
with Dale St. John at 10:55 and 12, seconds you believe you saw the
person with blond hair appear to the left at around approximately
10:54 and 30 seconds p.m.?

A. Correct.

Q. We're going to go back to Exhibit 116.

Now, this isn't to scale, but if you could describe to the -- to the
jury -- if you would get off the witness stand, please -- where you
saw the person with blond hair at around 10:54 p.m. and 30 seconds.

(Witness indicates to Exhibit 116.)

A. He would be in this area over --

THE REPORTER: Excuse me I didn't hear the rest of the answer.

Q. He's pointing to the area generally where this pathway from the
back of the house intersects the driveway; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

Q. You're looking straight ahead, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Did you have any problem seeing that person?

A. No.

Q. In this last 30 seconds with your telephone call with Dale, when
you first saw this blond-haired person, did you then see anything, or
anyone else come in this area over here?

A. Yes. I saw somebody come from the driveway area into the house, or
go into the house.

Q. And can you tell us what the person looked like that you saw go
from the driveway area into the house?

A. Six foot, 200 pounds, and all black clothing.

Q. When you say all black clothing, what do you mean by that?

A. Well, dark pants, dark top,

Q. Now, if you can sort of put yourself back at that moment in time
when you're seeing this person in all dark clothing, you're on the
phone with Dale St. John, still?

A. Yes.

Q. At that moment in time, did you believe that you were seeing that
person wear a robe?

A. At the time, no.

Q. Did you believe that you saw a swirling hem of a robe?

A. No.

Q. Did you believe you saw, like a belt of a robe waving and flipping
around and so forth?

A. No.

Q. Before anything else happened, before you learned anything else or
talked to any lawyers or anybody else, at that point in time, you
believed when you said dark clothing, that the person was wearing
what?

MR. BAKER: I object, Your Honor. This is leading, suggestive, and he's
asking for his state of mind. It's irrelevant at this time, in view of
the subsequent conversations with many lawyers.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Can you repeat the question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Yes.

Explain once again what you thought you saw at that point in time in
terms of the dark clothing.

A. That's what I thought I saw, dark clothing.

Q. By that -- you said before, dark pants and dark top.

MR. BAKER: Asked an answered. The question indicates it was asked and
answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

Now, what happened after you saw the person six feet, 200 pounds, all
dark clothing, go into or near the entrance of the house?

What happened next?

A. What happened was, that person went into the house. I finished up
my phone call with Dale when the person went into the house, some
light illuminated from the front of the house -- I don't know where it
was coming from -- and hung up the phone with Dale.

Q. Let me stop you right there, then.

First of all, can you tell whether the person that went into the house
was Caucasian, African-American or another race?

A. Afro-American.

Q. Then you said when the person went into the house, you saw lights
illuminate.

A. Yes.

Q. Had you seen those lights illuminated before the person went into
the house?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Okay.

And when you saw the lights illuminate, were you still finishing up
your call with Mr. St. John?

A. Yes.

Q. How many seconds after you saw the person go in the house were you
still on the phone with Mr. St. John?

A. I don't remember that.

Q. Did you even mention to St. John that you saw this person?

A. No.

Q. Now, was the -- what was the pace of the person's movement into the
house?

A. He was moving quickly; he wasn't -- it wasn't a run; it wasn't a
walk. It was a quick-motion walk.

Q. And can you go up to Exhibit 116 and point out to the ladies and
gentlemen of the jury where you first picked up the vision of this
person, six foot, 200 pounds, Afro-American, all dark clothing.

A. It was around this area right here (indicating).

Q. Okay.

Now, could you do that one more time -- and forgive me, because I
didn't get a chance to get next to you -- Point it out again?

A. It was around this area (indicating).

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect there's the word "driveway"
printed on this exhibit.

This is 116, Steve, right?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you are pointing between the W and the A,
right below the W and the A?

A. South, around there. I mean around that area.

Q. Around the area just below the W and the A?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Using -- using my trusty pen there, why don't you indicate to the jury
what direction you saw the person traveling.

A. Would have been this way, heading this way, and I said cutting the
corner into the house. (Indicating.)

Q. And you were observing this while you were in your car, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And were you -- where you first picked him up, is just south here
on the map of the W and the A?

A. Right.

Q. Is that an estimation?

A. Around that area, yeah. I can't be exact where he was.

Q. Now, you were asked similar questions at the criminal trial were
you not?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Okay. 1446 -- 1456 --

MR. PETROCELLI: 1446 -- 1456. Will this show up on the Elmo?

This is an Elmo reproduction of another Elmo reproduction at the
criminal trial.

(The instrument herein referred to as An Elmo reproduction of another
Elmo reproduction at the criminal trial depicting a diagram of the
Rockingham property was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 1456.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I just want to go over this with you.

This is the spot that you marked with the cross at the criminal trial?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, did you mark that spot yourself, by putting it up there?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Can you explain to the jury --

Well, first of all, is that spot near where you saw the person?

A. It's around that area, yeah, just a little bit south of it.

Q. Could you point to the spot where you believe you first picked up
the person, using this exhibit.

A. It was just around this area here (indicating ).

Q. It's a little below where that cross appears?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you were on the witness stand some time ago doing the same
kind of thing, right, in the criminal trial?

A. Correct.

Q. How did that cross get put on that document, if you could explain
to the jury?

A. Marcia Clark was asking me to put a spot on where I saw the --
well, not me. Somebody else was controlling this machine, and the
thing was going all over the place, back and forth, back and forth.
And he got around the area, and I said, "Stop; that's it."

Q. And that's generally the area?

A. That's generally the area.

Q. In other words, you weren't working the machine yourself, right?

A. No.

Q. And where was the machine in the other courtroom?

A. Back -- just back behind this section here.

Q. Okay.

So I just wanted it to be clear, it's not something you physically put
on with your hand, right?

A. No.

Q. But it generally is the same area, but a little below?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Would this be a good time?

THE CLERK: I'd I like to clarify what the exhibit number is.

MR. PETROCELLI: This exhibit is 1456.

Can we clarify it at the break?

THE COURT: Ten-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, two things.

First, on scheduling, looks like we're going to finish Mr. Park this
afternoon, unless there's another long cross-examination.

And then our next witness is Mr. Bodziak from the FBI. And I think
we'll finish him today, also. If not, we may leak over a little bit
into the morning. And we'd like to begin with Mr. Simpson on Friday,
with the Court's permission.

THE COURT: So what happened to all the witnesses you were going to
call after him?

MR. PETROCELLI: They would follow Mr. Simpson. Not before -- they
would not precede him. And their testimony would make far more sense
after Mr. Simpson. So we would ask -- and the defense also has no
objection to this, either.

MR. BAKER: Well, I --

MR. PETROCELLI: Don't sand-bag me, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: All right, all right.

MR. LEONARD: You owe me one.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. PETROCELLI: Secondly, Your Honor on the testimony that you struck,
I believe that it shows his conduct, in not leaving and waiting there
for a longer period of time, and why he had to wait. And I wasn't
clear on the basis of the Court's ruling, it not being offered for the
truth; it's being offered to the conduct of this particular witness.

THE COURT: I think the portion that's objected to is that portion
where Dale tells this witness what Mr. Simpson does with regards to
the upstairs and the TV room and the lights on.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, I would submit it goes not for the truth of
that, but why he shouldn't leave and why there was indications that he
wasn't home.

THE COURT: Well, under 352, I will exclude it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. We'll have to call Mr. St. John.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Do you want to put on 114?

(Exhibit 114 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) We've got -- referring again to 114, and pulled
it up to sort of an approximate view from the limousine, looking in
the Ashford gate.

MR. BAKER: I object. Your Honor, that is not an approximate, the
limousine looking in the gate, because of where that picture is taken,
the Elmo distorts and gives different angles when you pull it up.

Q. In any event, Mr. Park, let me show you -- can you stand up,
please.

Do you see this skylight up here?

A. Yes. Did you see any light coming from that skylight?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. There's a kitchen nook area down here?

A. I assume that.

Q. Did you see lights coming from that part of the house before you
saw the dark figure going in the house?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And do you see this little pathway here --

A. Yes.

Q. -- as it intersects the driveway?

A. Yes.

Q. This is the intercom, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Is that the location where you saw the blond-haired person appear
about 30 seconds before you got off the phone?

A. Yes.

Q. Was he a little this way or that way?

A. He was a little bit -- little bit farther back.

Q. Farther back, towards the side?

A. When I first saw him.

Q. When you first saw him. Okay.

And when you first saw him -- and did you then see where he went after
you first saw him?

A. I didn't pay any attention to him.

Q. Okay.

And did he, at that point in time, open the gate for you?

A. No, he didn't.

Q. Okay.

So after you saw him, you then saw the person go in the house, and you
got off the phone, as you testified to, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, and during this period of time, do you or do you not see this
blond-haired person while you're getting off the phone, while you're
seeing the other person go into the house?

A. I don't remember that.

Q. You don't remember seeing him, then?

A. I -- after I saw him the first time, I didn't pay any attention to
him.

Q. Okay.

Did there come a time when you saw him again?

A. When he opened the gate for me.

Q. That was a little later on?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. We'll get to that.

What I'm trying to find out is whether between the time you first saw
him and the time you saw him open the gate later on, whether you saw
him in between.

A. No.

Q. Okay.

When you saw that person going into the house, at any point in time
did you see him coming --

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm blocking somebody, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Well, yeah, you're beginning to step in front of the
jurors.

MR. PETROCELLI: I apologize, Madame Juror.

THE COURT: You were very good for about three weeks.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'll get out of your way here.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you saw that person going into the house,
that person in all dark clothing, at that point -- during that point
in time, did you ever see him coming out of the house?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see him pick up a golf bag and hold it up to you?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see him signal to you?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see him nod or gesture to you in any way?

A. No.

Q. During the time that you were in the car -- withdrawn.

When you were getting out of the car and going to the intercom, could
you see the Rockingham gate while you were standing up, using the
intercom?

A. At any time?

Q. Yes.

A. No.

Q. And while you were inside the car, did you -- could you hear noises
from Rockingham, such as cars coming up and down?

A. No.

Q. Let's pick up the sequence of each event.

Again, after you saw the person go into the house and you saw lights
illuminate, you got off the phone, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And then what happened?

A. After I got off the phone, I sat in the car for another few
seconds.

Q. Why?

A. I was -- since somebody was home, I figured they were going to open
the gate for me.

Q. And did someone open the gate for you?

A. Not at that time, no.

Q. How long did you wait in the car for someone to open the gate for
you after you got off the phone?

A. Fifteen, thirty seconds, in between there. I can't be exact.

Q. And after that interval of time went by and no one opened the gate
for you, what did you then do?

A. I then stepped out of the vehicle again, and, I pushed the
intercom. This time it was answered.

Q. Was it answered after a number of buzzes or right away?

A. Immediately.

Q. And describe what happened next.

A. A voice came over the intercom saying, "Sorry, I overslept; I just
got out of the shower," and, "I'll be down in a minute."

Q. Did you recognize the voice?

A. Yes.

Q. Whose voice was it?

A. Mr. Simpson's.

Q. What happened after Mr. Simpson and you stopped talking through the
intercom?

A. After that, I got back into the vehicle and waited another 30
seconds.

Q. Did the gate open during that time when you got off the intercom,
went in the vehicle, and waited 30 seconds?

A. No, it didn't.

Q. What did you then do?

A. Sat there and waited.

Q. What did you then do?

A. I waited until finally, the white male came and opened the gate for
me.

Q. And is this the same white male that you had seen previously?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is the very next time that you had seen him, right?

A. Yes.

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

Q. You -- can you tell us by walking up to Exhibit 116 and pointing
out where the white male walked up to and how the white male opened
the gate for you?

A. He came up the driveway from this direction, and he didn't come up
to the gate and open it manually. He -- I guess where it says control
box, somewhere over in that area, he hit a button or what-not, and the
gate opened.

Q. Okay.

And was your car engine on this whole time?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And what did you -- What did you then do?

You can take a seat.

(Witness resumes witness stand.)

A. After the gate opened up, I drove into the property, pulled up with
my driver window parallel with the front door, and popped the trunk
and got out.

Q. You pulled up basically this direction right here, with my pen
pointing in the southerly direction? (Indicating.)

A. That's correct.

Q. And stopped just opposite the front entrance?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, did you notice, when you pulled in, a black dog?

A. Yes.

Q. Did the dog run out of the gate when it opened?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. What happened when you pulled up to the -- to the gate?

A. When I pulled up to the gate?

Q. I'm sorry. Pulled up to the front door area.

A. Like I say, I popped the trunk, and stepped out of the vehicle.

At that time, the white male came up to me and was asking me about an
earthquake. I said no, or he asked me if I felt an earthquake, and I
said no. And he started describing these sounds he heard on his wall,
and that a picture moved on his wall. He said he was on the phone with
a friend, and that was the reason he was coming out.

He made some other small talk, like was Mr. Simpson running late,
things like that.

Q. What did you say when he asked if Mr. Simpson was running late?

A. I looked at my watch and I said, "It sure looks like it."

Q. Did he have anything in his hands, this white person?

A. He had a very small flashlight.

Q. You've since seen Kato Kaelin, have you not?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that the person we're talking about?

A. Yes.

Q. We can now address -- As Mr. Kaelin?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Well, after you had this little conversation with Mr. Kaelin, then
what happened?

A. Kaelin walked towards the garage area and was calling the dog at
the same time. He was petting the dog, and he proceeded on, calling
the dog. He wanted the dog to come with him. He was just about at the
corner of the garage area.

Q. Where, this southwest corner here, where I'm pointing?

A. That's correct.

Q. And he was heading there, wanting the dog to come?

A. That's correct.

Q. The dog was not coming?

A. Didn't want to leave.

Q. And stayed with you?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Then what happened?

A. He walked back over to me, or towards where the dog was, and kind
of motivated the dog to go with him. And the dog started to follow him
after that.

I sat out front.

Q. By yourself?

A. By myself.

Q. Okay.

And then what happened?

A. After that, he walked around the corner -- how far, I don't know;
he was out of the field of my view -- and returned back out front with
me shortly after that.

Q. Now, when you pulled up to the entrance area of Mr. Simpson's
house, did you see any baggage or luggage?

A. Yes, there was some bags on the -- just off the driveway, on the
porch area.

Q. And did you and Mr. Kaelin begin packing those items?

A. Not the ones that I saw on the porch, no.

Q. Did -- and then at some point in time -- just left them there?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And at some point in time, did Mr. Simpson appear?

A. Yes. He finally came down the stairs, carrying a what we all know
now is the Louis Vitton bag -- he was carrying that -- and he set that
next to the baggage on the ground.

Q. This is the first time you seen him -- _

A. Yes.

Q. -- since the person that went into the entranceway?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

What was he dressed like?

A. He was wearing some stone-washed blue Levis, and like, a white polo
shirt and what -- I don't remember if he had an overcoat with him. I
don't know if he was wearing it or not.

Q. Now, the clothes that you saw him wearing at this point in time,
did they appear to be the same clothing that you had seen that person
wearing going into the house?

A. No.

Q. When Mr. Simpson appeared, besides his clothing, did you make any
other observations of how he appeared to you?

A. He just seemed to be in a very big hurry.

Q. And can you tell the jury what happened after you first began
interacting with Mr. Simpson.

A. I -- from what I remember, he set the Louis Vitton bag down next to
the other bag, and he proceeded down the driveway.

I -- I then picked up the Louis Vitton bag, went and put it -- it was
around the same time I saw Kato putting the -- the golf clubs into the
trunk, and I walked over and put the Louis Vitton bag into the trunk.

Q. So -- let me stop you there.

While Kato Kaelin and you are putting some items of luggage into the
trunk, you said Mr. Simpson began walking down the driveway?

A. From what I remember, yes.

Q. And by "the driveway," could you tell us what driveway and what
direction?

A. Towards the Rockingham gate.

Q. Meaning in this direction, where I'm going with my pen, from the
entranceway towards the Rockingham gate?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And did he then leave your field of view or vision for a while?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. Okay.

Then what happened?

A. Simpson, was -- he was running back -- not running, but he was --
just seemed to be getting things together for the ride to the airport.

At some point in time in there, Kato asked me for a flashlight, if I
had a flashlight in my vehicle, because he was complaining about his
didn't work too well.

I proceeded to check the limousine for a flashlight, looked in the
glove compartment, looked in the trunk. I couldn't find a flashlight.

Q. Did there come a time when you saw any item of luggage away from
the area of the front entranceway?

A. Yes. Earlier, I noticed a small, dark bag laying on the edge of the
-- the driveway, towards the back.

Q. Can you show the jury where you believe you saw this small, dark
bag.

(Witness indicates to Exhibit 116.)

A. That would be somewhere in this area.

Q. And you're pointing to an area where?

A. Yeah, somewhere around there (indicating).

Q. This one circle over --

A. Correct.

Q. Was there a car next to that bag?

A. Yes, there was.

Q. Was the car (sic) behind the car?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And tell the jury what you can remember concerning that bag, and who
was going to get the bag, and so forth.

You can take the witness stand.

A. Well, after I was through looking for the flashlight, at some point
I asked Mr. Simpson where he'd like the two bags that were on the
porch, if he'd like them inside the trunk or inside the cab.

He asked me to put them inside the cab, so I did. I put them in there.

We were -- at another point, we were standing back by the trunk, Kato,
Simpson and I were, towards the back of the trunk, and Kato mentioned
he was going to go get that bag, he said, I'll go get that bag for
you.

Q. By that bag, he meant the one behind the car?

A. Yes, he was pointing to that bag.

Q. He being Mr. Kaelin?

A. Yes.

Q. Then what happened?

A. Simpson jumped out and said no, no, no, that's okay, that's okay,
I'll get the bag, don't worry about it, I'll get it.

So Simpson went and grabbed the bag.

I was towards the back of the trunk area. I went and closed the
passenger driver-side door, and he returned towards the vehicle with
that bag. Where he put it I don't remember. I don't know if it was in
the trunk or inside the cab.

Q. When you say jumped out, what did you mean by that?

A. Well, he didn't want Kato to get it so he --

MR. BAKER: I move to strike as to what he thinks Mr. Simpson wanted or
didn't want.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Tell us what you observed, Mr. Park, when you
say he jumped out, tell us a little more perhaps specifically, you
know, what he did to go get the bag?

A. He told Kato just what I said and --

Q. When was what?

A. He said no, no, no, that's okay, I'll get the bag, don't worry
about it. And he moved quickly to get the bag.

Q. Okay. Did you -- during the time that that bag was out there, did
you get a chance to see it?

A. I saw it from a distance. I know it was a dark small bag.

Q. Well, let me show you this bag.

MR. PETROCELLI: Is this 899?

THE CLERK: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is this the bag that you saw there?

(Referring to Exhibit 899.)

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect 899 is this bluish bag.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, after -- let me back up for a second.

Did there come a time during all this activity that you've been
describing when Mr. Kaelin and Mr. Simpson began to look for the thing
that Mr. Kaelin was talking about, the noise that he had heard?

A. Yeah. At one point, Simpson was walking by Kato and I, and Kato was
still concerned about what the noise was on the wall. He kept
repeating, you know, you sure you didn't feel an earthquake, this and
that. And Simpson overheard us talking about an earthquake and he
asked, as in a question way, he said oh, we had an earthquake?

At that time he was walking back into the house. Kato followed him
into the house. At about the time that they came back out, Simpson was
talking about searching the property.

He pointed in one direction and said you go that way, pointing towards
the garage area, he said I'll go this way, pointing going around the
back way of the house.

Kato started walking towards the garage area and Simpson followed
right behind him. He didn't go the other way.

Q. Let me understand this.

Mr. Kaelin started heading in the direction that he had been before,
behind the garage?

A. Right.

Q. And Mr. Simpson indicated that he was going to go in a different
direction?

A. Correct.

Q. What did Mr. Simpson then do?

A. He followed Kato towards the garage area where Kato was -- he was
heading back behind that.

Q. What did you do during this time?

A. I closed the trunk and I closed the doors on the limousine and I
proceeded behind Mr. Simpson.

Q. So it was the three of you?

A. Yes.

Q. And about how far did you get, the three of you?

A. Kato was just past the corner of the garage, yes.

(Mr. Petrocelli indicated to Exhibit 116.)

A. Simpson was a little farther behind him, not much farther, and I
was right behind Mr. Simpson.

Simpson then turned around and saw that I was following back there,
and he said we got to go, we got to get out of here.

Q. Then what happened?

A. So we turned around, went back to the car. I let him in the back, I
got into the driver seat, and went to the Rockingham gate that Kato
opened up for us.

Q. Kato opened the Rockingham gate by using this control box here
(indicating)?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when you exited the Rockingham gate, which way did you pull --
which way did you turn, excuse me?

A. I turned left going south.

Q. Now, when you began to make that turn left, did Mr. Simpson tell
you to wait to see if the dog was going for run out?

A. I don't remember that, no.

Q. Okay. And as you approached beyond the gate to begin the turn left,
did you see any cars coming?

A. Yes. There was a car coming from the northern direction heading my
way, south.

Q. Car coming south --

A. Yes.

Q. -- like this (indicating)?

And did you go out before that car or did you let that car pass?

A. No, I let that car pass. I kind of edged my way out into the street
and waited for him to go by and followed him out.

Q. And were you focused on that car?

A. On the -- not the whole time. I knew it was coming so I focused
left to make sure there was no traffic coming from -- heading north
coming -- coming, you know, heading back up the -- Rockingham, so I
was sure that when the car passed I can -- I can pull out into the
street and follow him out.

Q. So you knew this car was coming, right?

A. Yes.

Q. This direction.

And you looked left to see if there was cars coming that way, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Did you see any?

A. No.

Q. After that car passed, you followed it?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, during that interval of time, did you make any specific
observations of whether cars were parked on the curb before or after
the gates?

A. No.

Q. Okay. You didn't look; is that what you're saying?

MR. BAKER: That's --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You didn't look for parked cars; is that what
you're saying?

A. No, it wasn't -- that wasn't my concern.

Q. Okay. You then drove to the airport?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, any approximation of what time it was when you left the
property on your way to the airport?

A. It was around 11:15.

Q. And about what time did you get to the airport?

A. Just right around 11:30.

Q. Lot of traffic?

A. No.

Q. Sunday night?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mr. Simpson sat where?

A. In the back.

Q. And you sat in the front, obviously?

A. Yes.

Q. Was there any divider between the two of you?

A. There was a divider but it wasn't up.

Q. So there is nothing separating you and Mr. Simpson in terms of any
barriers; is that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And did you have any conversation with Mr. Simpson, did he say
anything?

A. On the way -- I pulled back out onto Sunset. I was getting onto the
405 freeway and the one way I knew to get onto the 405 was to make a
left, which was heading north, and it looped around and went back onto
the 405.

I was in that lane ready to make my turn off that, and Simpson replied
that I could get onto the freeway from -- to the right.

So instead of just following through with what I was going to do, I
got over as fast as I could and made a right-hand turn, which was too
soon, so I missed the freeway.

And he said that's okay, there's another on-ramp down below.

Got on the freeway.

In between that time, he repeated that he was hot several times. I
told him he can turn on the air conditioning. He had the window down.
Asked me what time it was. Asked me what street I was going to take to
the airport and he suggested I take Sepulveda. I said okay.

And that was it.

Q. And how many times did he say to you that he was hot?

A. He repeated it three or four times.

Q. Did he keep the window in the back open or closed?

A. Open.

Q. And did he -- did you have any conversation with him about the use
of an air conditioner?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I just told him that he can turn it on.

Q. Did he?

A. Yes.

Q. How do you know?

A. Because there's a motor behind the passenger front seat, there's a
motor that runs the air conditioning in the back right there, and I
can -- I can hear the motor come on from where I'm sitting.

Q. Did he say anything to you about turning on a light in the back?

A. He asked me where a light was, and as I was about to tell him, he
found it.

Q. Okay. Do you -- did you ever catch a glimpse behind you as you were
driving on the freeway to see what he was doing in the back seat?

A. I never paid direct attention to him. There were times when I did
make some lane changes, since the border was down in the middle it's
just easier to use the side windows in the back so I can get over into
the other lanes instead of using the little rearview mirror, so I
turned -- turned around and looked out the window, but I never paid --
you know, I never looked directly at him.

Q. During the times that you were looking, did you ever see him doing
anything?

A. He seemed to be bending down, which I can see out of the corner of
my eye, just bending down, working with the bags -- doing whatever he
was doing.

Q. At any point in time did he use the cell phone in the car to make a
phone call?

A. No.

Q. When -- when -- withdrawn.

At any point in time during the trip to the airport, and even before,
when you saw him packing up the car and so forth, did he say anything
to you about a -- about being concerned that there was a prowler and
calling the police or calling Westec, anything like that?

A. Never.

Q. Now, when you got to the airport, what happened?

A. When we got to the airport, I pulled alongside of the curb, let him
out. I popped the trunk before I got out, let him out.

Q. You popped the trunk from inside the car?

A. Correct.

Q. Then you got out?

A. I got out, let him out. We both walked to the trunk. I grabbed the
Louis Vitton bag, and as I grabbed that, he said why don't you go get
a Sky Cap.

I set the Louis Vitton bag down by the rear passenger tire; went to
look for a sky cap.

They were all busy. They said they couldn't help me right now.

So I went and got a luggage cart and returned to the car.

Q. Then what happened?

A. At that time, he had a black duffel bag around his shoulder, and I
grabbed the Louis Vitton bag, put it up on the top cart holder, and
then he handed me the golf clubs, set those on the cart, and he took
care of the rest of the bags.

Q. Did you see him at any point at the trunk working with luggage
while you were going off to get a Sky Cap?

A. Yeah, that's what he was doing when I left.

Q. And did you ever see what happened to that bag that you had seen
behind the car on the driveway?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. When -- when the luggage was being transferred over to the Sky Cap,
did you see that bag?

A. No.

Q. And then what's the last thing that you saw when you were
interacting with Mr. Simpson, saying good-bye?

A. Yeah, I put the two pieces of luggage that I had on the big luggage
-- luggage bag.

Q. You're talking about the Louis Vitton bag and the golf bag?

A. Golf bag.

Q. By the way, you don't mean -- when you say golf bag, you don't mean
with the clubs showing, you mean in some kind of travel bag?

A. Yes.

Q. Go ahead.

A. That was pretty much the end of it. I said thank you, have a good
flight, and he said thanks, add 20 percent, and I shook his hand.

Q. Which hand did you shake?

A. Right hand.

Q. Did you notice anything about his appearance?

A. Just seemed in a very big hurry, little bit of sweat on his
forehead, and that's it.

Q. Were you sweating?

A. No.

Q. At any point in time during this encounter with Mr. Simpson, from
beginning to end, did you ever touch his left hand?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Did you ever examine his left hand or any of his fingers?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever look at them closely?

A. No.

Q. The only hand you touched was his right hand?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Simpson leave behind in your car, either in the passenger
compartments or the trunk, any items of luggage?

A. No, he didn't.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you. No further questions.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER:

Q. Didn't leave any blood either?

THE COURT: Mr. Baker, I'm going to take 10 minutes.

10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER (continued):

Q. Good morning.

There was no blood anywhere in that limousine after Mr. Simpson exited
that vehicle, true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, lack of foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Not that I saw, no.

Q. Now, you recall during the -- well, let me ask you this, Mr. Park:
During the time that you were with Mr. Simpson from around 11 o'clock
until before -- until you left the airport at 11:35, 11:40, he made no
attempt to conceal his hands, you didn't see any attempt for him to do
that, did you?

A. No.

Q. And if -- you recall Ms. Clark in the criminal trial asking you
some questions about his hands, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you didn't see any cut or any blood oozing from his left ring
-- middle finger, did you?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. And you -- you would have remembered had you seen -- strike that.

You didn't see any band-aid on his left middle finger, did you,
either?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. You would have remembered if you had seen a band-aid on his left
middle finger, wouldn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And there was none present, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, you've spent some time with Mr. Petrocelli, the plaintiffs'
lawyers?

A. Yes.

Q. How much time have you spent?

A. Five, six hours.

Q. Six hours.

And that is after you had already testified at the trial for over two
days, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And your testimony, they had there, before you ever spent another
five hours going over your testimony that was going to be presented in
this case, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And they had your grand jury testimony that had already been taken
under penalty of perjury at this time, correct?

A. I would assume, yes.

Q. And they had your -- all of your testimony at not only the
preliminary hearing, but the grand jury proceeding, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now -- now, Mr. Park, your recollection of -- you've testified to
some level of specificity here this morning. You would agree with
that, correct.

A. Yes.

Q. And -- in other words, you seem to have a recollection about
particulars, including the exact words my client, Mr. Simpson, used to
you on the evening of June 12, 1994, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, did Mr. Petrocelli go over with you the questions that he was
going to ask you and the answers that you were going to give in the
five hours that you spent before you came into court and gave your
testimony not quite spontaneously?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: I'll overrule the objection.

If you understand the question?

A. Some.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Did he have a -- he had a list of typewritten
questions for you, didn't he? You saw his questions, they were
typewritten, relative to what areas you were going to go over,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. All right. Now, you had spent -- before you ever spent this five
hours with Mr. Petrocelli, you spent a great deal of time with Marcia
Clark from the prosecution before you testified at the criminal trial,
had you not?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, let's go over your recollection a little bit.

Now, you picked up the bag that Mr. Simpson had out at his -- this
Louis Vitton bag.

MR. BAKER: That is Exhibit --

MR. P. BAKER: What, the criminal?

MR. PETROCELLI: Use the civil number.

MR. BAKER: We will, but we have to use the criminal number first.
1062.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) By the way, I have got graduated bifocals --

MR. P. BAKER: Civil, 895.

(The instrument herein described as a Louis Vitton bag was marked by
reference to the Criminal Case No. BA097211 for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 895 by reference.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Because I'm nearsighted.

You're also nearsighted, aren't you, Mr. Park?

A. Somewhat.

Q. And you have glasses but choose at times not to wear them; is that
right?

A. Most of the time, not to wear them.

Q. You picked up this Louis Vitton bag, put it in the trunk, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You took it out of the trunk, put it on a cart, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you thought that was a Gucci bag, after you spent hours with
the prosecution and you had testified at the criminal trial, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And so when you testified today, you said we now all know that it's
a Louis Vitton bag. Did somebody tell you after your criminal trial --
after you picked this bag up, and testified for days, that this was
not a Louis -- was not a Gucci bag, but a Louis Vitton bag?

A. I was ragged on pretty hard for not knowing the difference between
Gucci and Louis Vitton.

(Laughter.)

Q. Did somebody tell you this was a Louis Vitton bag?

A. I think in the criminal trial they -- or in the prelim, somebody
said could it have had an LV on it or whatnot.

Q. And you still, regardless of that, in the preliminary hearing in
July of 1994, testified in March of 1995 you thought it was a Gucci
bag, right?

A. The night of -- yes.

Q. All right. Now, let me show you a golf bag.

MR. P. BAKER: 896.

THE CLERK: Marked by -- both of those are marked by reference.

(The instrument herein described as a black duffel bag was marked by
reference to the Criminal Case No. BA097211 for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 896 by reference.)

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I'm -- put it up here
where you can see it now.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You -- you testified here this morning that Kato
Kaelin put that bag in the car, did you not?

A. That's correct.

(Indicating to large black duffel bag.)

Q. You testified at the criminal trial that you put that bag in the
car, did you not?

A. That's wrong.

Q. You did not do that, you didn't testify to that?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. Okay. Let me see if I --

MR. PETROCELLI: Give me a page and line, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Sorry?

MR. PETROCELLI: Need a page and line.

MR. BAKER: Yeah.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You -- you didn't believe after you had handled that
bag on two or three occasions on the night of June 12, 1994, you
didn't believe that that in fact was the bag that you had handled that
night, correct?

A. It didn't look like the same bag, no.

Q. And you have been since told that you were incorrect, that that is,
in fact, the bag that you handled on more than one occasion on the
night of June 12, 1994, correct?

A. No.

Q. You've never been told that?

A. Told...

Q. Well -- come down, if you would, sir.

Because it was your impression, as I recall, that you thought the
"Swiss Army" lettering on that bag was different in size than the one
you put in and took out of Mr. Simpson's car on the evening of June
12, 1994?

A. Well, first of all, I didn't put it in the car, but I do believe
that it was a different bag.

Q. And you thought it had a different emblem on it?

A. That's correct.

Q. And if someone were to tell you that is, in fact, the bag that you
handled on the night of June 12, 1994, you would disagree with that,
sir, because your recollection is that that is the wrong bag, true?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That I would say that it was the right --

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) My question --

A. After somebody told me?

Q. If, in fact, you were being told that that was in fact the bag, the
golf bag with the golf clubs in it and the golf cover on it, that you
handled on June 12, 1994, you would disagree with that, correct?

A. That is the bag? I remembered a different bag that was in the
trunk.

Q. All right. Fair enough.

You may resume your seat.

Now, you also --

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

MR. P. BAKER: That's 116.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You were in --

MR. BAKER: Can you put that shot on the Elmo in the -- in the --
looking into Rockingham from the Ashford gate, please.

MR. P. BAKER: 114.

(The instrument herein described as a photo of Ashford gate at
Rockingham with person to the left was marked for identification as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 114.)

MR. P. BAKER: On the screen.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, as I understand it, sir, your car was pulled
into the driveway and you were sitting in the driver seat for awhile
and you were also out next to the -- to the phone on the left of the
gate as we look at the picture on the monitor, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And we've heard from Sergeant Edward that he could, from
standing out in the street, see the Rockingham gate.

It's your testimony you couldn't see the Rockingham gate at all from
the position that you were in while the car was approaching that gate,
correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, misstates the evidence.

THE COURT: Rephrase it.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) When you were in the vehicle, you were five or six
feet behind the gate seated in the vehicle, correct?

A. Seated, yes.

Q. All right. And you were looking out the windshield, true?

A. True.

MR. PETROCELLI: Mr. Park, keep your voice up. Thanks.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And you were very concerned about locating Mr.
Simpson and getting Mr. Simpson to the airport in time to catch a
11:45 flight, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And that was your main concern with the whole evening; is that not
true?

A. That's correct.

Q. In other words, as I recall, isn't it a fact, sir, that you were a
part-time driver, you lived next to -- in the same area as Dale St.
John?

A. Correct.

Q. And this was kind of a big responsibility on the night of June 12,
1994 to pick up someone of Mr. Simpson's stature, a celebrity,
correct? You didn't want to screw it up, did you?

A. No.

Q. All right. And so the concern was to get there in plenty of time
and to make sure you did everything to get Mr. Simpson to the airport
in time to catch that flight, true?

A. True.

Q. Okay. And you weren't, of course, concerned about whether or not
there was cars parked on Rockingham or not, correct?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection as to time, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) When you drove up there at 10:22, you weren't
concerned about whether or not cars were parked on Rockingham, were
you?

A. No, I wasn't.

Q. And you didn't look for cars parked on Rockingham. Your
concentration was focused on looking at numbers so that you could find
Mr. Simpson's house and do the job that you were supposed to do that
night, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you have -- you've stated with some degree, sir, of specificity
here this morning that -- that you are sure, in your own state of
mind, that there wasn't a Bronco in front of 360 North Rockingham when
you drove up there at 10:20 or 10:22?

Do you recall that?

A. I didn't see one.

Q. And when you testified -- you're positive you didn't see it, right?

A. Didn't see one.

Q. Let me read from 7 -- 20793, starting at line 13. The answer goes
over to 794 and down to page 13 -- or line 13, sorry.

MR. BAKER: Tell me when you're ready, please.

Ready? Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI: (Nods.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Question by Ms. Clark. (Reading) When you were
looking at the curb and

you say you saw this address, you indicated

earlier that you did not see a white Ford

Bronco?

Answer: I wasn't looking for it. I didn't

see it.

Question: Are you sure you didn't see it?

Answer: I wouldn't say I'm positive. I

wasn't looking for a car. I was looking for

an address.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, that was your testimony at the criminal trial,
correct, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you read lines 1 through 7 that complete that
line, Mr. Baker. 20795, following page.

MR. BAKER: I haven't even looked at that. I'm --

MR. PETROCELLI: I'll read it.

MR. BAKER: Fine.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, your concern is, as you indicated here, you
weren't looking for a vehicle when you went past 360 North Rockingham;
you were concentrating on looking for the address, correct, sir?

A. That's correct.

Q. And, in fact -- let's just carry that -- that whole thing through
for a minute.

Now, when you exited the Rockingham property with Mr. Simpson and the
vehicle headed to the airport, as I understand your testimony, there
was a car going from north to south, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you, in fact, saw the headlamps of that vehicle illuminate the
roadway in front of you, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that gave you an indication that there was a car obviously, a
vehicle coming up and that you should pause to wait for the car,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you never saw any Bronco or any other car there because that
wasn't your area of concentration when you left Rockingham at around
11:30 -- or 11:15, I'm sorry, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And that vehicle, the white Ford Bronco, is a pretty good
size vehicle, isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And if you were looking right as you were in the driveway and
as you're coming out of the driveway waiting for a car going from
north to south, you couldn't have missed it, right?

A. Never paid attention to it.

Q. And you never paid attention to a white Ford Bronco or any other
vehicle when you were coming in, correct?

A. No, it wasn't my concern.

Q. All right. Now, in terms of your -- well, let me go back a little
bit, relative to the area that Mr. Simpson's property is located, that
Rockingham-Ashford area.

Now, that area at 10 o'clock on Sunday night is very quiet, true?

A. True.

Q. That is -- you mentioned something about when you came up to the
property and you turned around -- excuse me -- and parked with your
vehicle over on the north side of Ashford, that you were concerned
about traffic on Rockingham.

Remember that testimony this morning, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. There is very little traffic on Rockingham, isn't that true, car
every five minutes maybe?

MR. PETROCELLI: Vague as to time and lack of foundation.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Any time you were there, from 10:22 until you pulled
the vehicle into the driveway at 11 -- 10:55?

A. There was more traffic on Rockingham than there was on Ashford.

Q. And the traffic is what, a car every four, five, six minutes? While
you were there smoking a cigarette, you didn't see very many vehicles
go past, did you?

A. Very few.

Q. And when you did see a vehicle go past, while you were sitting on
the curb over by Ashford, you could see the lights illuminate up --
north on Rockingham, could you not, before you ever saw the vehicle,
true?

A. If I was looking for it, yes.

Q. You could hear the vehicle before you ever saw the vehicle because
it's a very quiet area, isn't that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Your concentration between 10:40 and 10:55 was to see if you could
locate Mr. Simpson so you could carry out your job that night to get
him to the airport, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And so your senses including your hearing, your sight, everything,
was kind of looking to see if you could see anybody that would give
you any indication that you were going to be able to carry out your
duties that night, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And your anxiety level, I assume, sir, relative to whether or not
you were in fact going to be able to carry out your duties increased
as you got closer to 11 o'clock, true?

A. That's true.

Q. And you were really looking and searching for any indication that
if there was anybody in the house, anybody around, anybody was coming
to the house, true?

A. True.

Q. And you did not at any time hear a car drive up or hear the sound
of a car stopping anywhere around that area; isn't that true?

A. That's true.

Q. Never heard a door slam, never heard the sound of a car engine,
anything like that, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you didn't see from your vantage point over here on Ashford,
you didn't see any headlights coming down -- I guess it would be up if
we're going north up Rockingham, that a car stopped before it passed
Ashford, you didn't see that either, did you, sir?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'll object as to time and no foundation that he was
looking, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay. Set the time, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Sure, be happy to.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You didn't see a car --

Well, let me go back and see If I can rephrase it and include the time
sequence.

Now, you got to the property at approximately 10:22, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And for you as a limo driver, is 10:22 approximate? I mean for me
it's pretty exact, but for you is that approximate?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Fair enough. Came past the 360 seen down by the curb that we
see on the TV monitor, drove down Ashford, turned around, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Got out of your vehicle, were smoking a cigarette and doing
whatever from approximately 10:22 to 10:39, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Got in your car at 10:39, drove your car around and looked into the
gate that we -- area that we -- well, that's Ashford.

MR. BAKER: Can we put up the Rockingham photo for a minute, please,
Steve.

MR. P. BAKER: That's 191.

THE COURT: All right,

MR. BAKER: Move it over to the gate. And focus.

MR. P. BAKER: I'm trying, "Judge."

(Exhibit 191 displayed on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Okay. You looked -- drove your vehicle up, you were
on -- obviously since you were headed in a southerly direction, this
way, you look up at the gate area in this area, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And when you looked up in that gate area, that was about 10:39,
10:40, and again, your concentration wasn't for any vehicle that was
parked on the street, was it?

A. No, that's not my concern.

Q. Backed up -- backed up to Ashford.

MR. BAKER: No, put the other one up.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) And pulled the vehicle in with the nose of the
vehicle almost touching the gate, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. P. BAKER: 114 is on the screen.

(Exhibit 114 displayed.)

Q. We know at this point in time you got out of the vehicle, right? So
you were standing at that point in time at 10:40, 10:41, you were
still obviously concerned about seeing Mr. Simpson, seeing if you
could find Mr. Simpson, and you were looking into the area that you
could see of the property from where you were at the call button,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And so your concern was then on that area, true?

A. True.

Q. And you could see from the call box all the way over to the
Rockingham gate without any trouble, couldn't you, when you're at the
call box, true?

A. I didn't see it, no.

Q. Is it your testimony, sir, that from standing at the call box and
looking into the gate, that there was something that obstructed your
view to the Rockingham gate?

A. Yes.

Q. What was that?

A. That would be the play area and trees and --

Q. The play area is an area that has what in it, do you have any
recollection from your evening on the 12 or of your subsequent review
of photographs of Mr. Simpson's property?

A. No, I have no idea.

Q. The play area is just an area with sand in it, isn't it?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, no foundation. He said he doesn't know.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) There is nothing in the play area, Mr. Park, that
would obstruct your view, is there?

MR. PETROCELLI: Same objection.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Well, there looks like there's some big trees there or bushes or
something.

Q. Well, you're what, about 5' 11, 10?

I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. How's that?

A. We'll say about that.

Q. Okay. Fair enough.

Do you know if you wear a size 12 shoe?

Now, when you look under --

(Laughter.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, when you looked under the tree, it had some
level of height before the branches on it; is that correct? Or if you
-- and if you didn't make any note of it, just tell us.

A. I didn't pay any attention.

Q. Fine. Thank you very much.

Now, in terms of your analysis, you were inside the gated area in
Rockingham for what, 20, 25 minutes?

A. Little less.

Q. All right. And during that period of time, you noted the specific
movements of my client, Mr. Simpson, out away from the area where you
were parked in the driveway?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, vague as to specific movements.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You noted that, did you not. You noted him walk
across the driveway, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you noticed with some particularity, sir, that there was a bag
you say that was in the driveway?

MR. BAKER: Phil, will you put up the one that he --

MR. P. BAKER: I think it's 1464.

(Exhibit 1464 displayed on Elmo.)

MR. BAKER: We've got 1464 on the monitor.

Can you back it up, please.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, in the criminal trial this is the exhibit that
you drew on at the criminal trial, right?

A. Correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: No. Objection. Objection, misstates his testimony that
he drew on it.

THE COURT: That's true.

MR. BAKER: Pardon?

THE COURT: He didn't testify that he drew it.

MR. BAKER: Let's go back.

MR. P. BAKER: Number 1456.

(Exhibit 1456 displayed on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) At the criminal trial, you were able to direct
people where to put various markings on this diagram, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you were able to, for example, if you felt that this blue X was
in the wrong place, you were able to tell them to move it -- no, it's
further south, correct, but you didn't?

MR. PETROCELLI: Compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: I'll withdraw it.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You were able to direct the person who was putting
the marks on the Elmo where to put them, were you not, sir?

A. If I wanted to, yes.

Q. And you directed where the blue X on the letter A is on driveway,
correct?

A. That's correct. I told him to stop there.

Q. And this, on the monitor, was the diagram that we have over here on
the easel, was it not, and then you put some markings on it -- or
markings were put on it, rather, at your direction, true?

A. True.

Q. All right. And what does the B stand for that's on the exhibit
that's on the Elmo, sir?

A. That's for the bag.

Q. And you said that there was a bag right in the area where the B
was, true?

A. True.

Q. And you also testified, after being in the area for 20 to 25
minutes and noting with specificity where the bag was; that there were
two cars parked in the cut-out area, did you not?

A. That's what I observed.

Q. If fact, there were not two cars there on that night, were there?

A. I still don't know.

Q. Well, was it your understanding, sir, that of the purported two
cars that were in that cut-out area on the -- well, strike that.

When you left you drove right by the cars, car or cars, that were in
the cut-out area before you left, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And in other words, your vehicle was parked going south and you
drove out the Rockingham gate and then proceeded up Rockingham right
past these purported two vehicles that were -- that were allegedly
parked there, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And in your recollection of the events of that evening, those
recollections came after you had spent some hours with Ms. Clark and
seen pictures of the vehicles that were parked in the driveway; isn't
that true?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. Is it your recollection that there was a Saab convertible parked as
the back most vehicle when you say that you were there on June 12,
1994?

A. I never said what type.

Q. I'm asking you, sir, is that the type it was, or do you have a
recollection of that at all?

A. No.

Q. You have a recollection of exactly where this bag was purportedly
placed? Was it placed behind a Bentley, was it placed behind a Saab,
was it placed behind some other type of vehicle, or is it possible you
don't have a clear recollection of that at all.

MR. PETROCELLI: Misstates his testimony. He didn't say anything about
exactly, Your Honor. It's argumentative and compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. It was behind a vehicle.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Well, as you sit here now, you have no recollection
of what type of vehicle, how far it was behind, and what color it was,
right?

A. That's correct. Didn't care.

Q. And so, wasn't really your concern that night, was it?

A. No, it wasn't.

Q. You knew it was a dark, thought maybe it was a dark bag, right? You
don't know whether it was this bag or any other bag, do you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Object, misstates his testimony.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) This bag is Exhibit 899.

You don't know whether it was this bag or any other bag, do you?

MR. PETROCELLI: Misstates his testimony.

THE COURT: You may answer.

MR. BAKER: I'm asking a question.

THE COURT: Do you know whether it was this bag?

THE WITNESS: That's not the bag I saw.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Not the bag you saw.

Let me ask you this: Was that purported -- the bag that you saw 10
feet behind the vehicle, 15 feet behind the vehicle; how far was it,
sir?

A. Five feet, ten feet.

Q. And you remember specifically the bag with enough specificity to
say that it was not Exhibit 899, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, Mr. Petrocelli showed you an exhibit of -- a picture of
Exhibit 899 in the five hours that you spent with him, didn't he?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. And he told you that that wasn't the bag, didn't he?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection, hearsay, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Him and others.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) They all told you that wasn't the bag, huh?

A. No, I told them that it wasn't the bag.

Q. Oh, I see. Fair enough.

Now, when you were parked at the Ashford gate, as I understand it, you
got out of your vehicle, went over to the intercom, pushed the button,
and didn't hear anything, got back in, and that's when you started
making the multiple telephone calls, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And in these multiple telephone calls, as I understand it, the last
telephone call that you made before you saw Mr. Simpson was a
telephone call -- that was an incoming call -- strike it. Not that you
made -- an incoming call from your boss Mr. St. John, correct?

A. I didn't understand that.

Q. Okay. The last call you got was from your boss, and you were
talking to him when you saw this person that you identified at the
criminal trial, first observed where the blue X is, and then walking
towards the front door, you were on the phone with Dale St. John at
this time, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And what you were on the phone with him about was discussing
whether or not Mr. Simpson was there or was going to miss the trip
that you were to provide from his home to LAX, right?

MR. PETROCELLI: Objection. He objected to the conversation with St.
John.

MR. BAKER: It was overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: No, it was stricken at your request. Now he's
eliciting the same conversation.

MR. BAKER: No, I'm not.

THE COURT: If he's eliciting, then's he waiving it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Then I would like the testimony not to be stricken
that I elicited.

THE COURT: You may reask it on your redirect.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) The subject matter that you were talking about to
Mr. St. John was the subject matter of Mr. Simpson going -- whether he
was there, and getting him to LAX, was it not?

A. There's correct.

Q. And you say during that conversation you saw an African American
about 6 feet tall, 200 pounds at the place where the blue X is,
walking towards the front entrance of the home, true?

A. Around that area, yes.

Q. Now, I take it that you had -- and you didn't tell Dale St. John
anything about visualizing this African American, 6 feet tall, 200
pounds, walking from the area in the driveway into the entrance of the
house, never said a word to him, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, this is after you had been at the property, now, for 30
minutes looking for Mr. Simpson, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And this is after you, of course, have, like everybody else, seen
him on television more than once, had you not?

A. True.

Q. And I take it, sir, that it crossed your mind that possibly Mr.
Simpson -- his house, he's a pretty good size guy, he's an African
American, and this walking towards the entrance of the house, and you
never said one word to your boss about that?

A. No.

Q. No. Okay.

Now, you say that when you saw this individual, that this individual
is dressed in dark clothing, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, and you've now testified here in court that it was dark pants,
dark shirt, right?

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor, I object to "now," it's
argumentative, misstates his prior testimony.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You've now testified in this courtroom that he was
wearing dark pants, dark shirt, right?

A. Dark bottoms and dark top, yes.

Q. And you testified at the criminal trial that he could have been in
a robe, you didn't know, isn't that true, sir?

A. No, that is not true.

MR. P. BAKER: That is 20847, starting at line 3.

MR. PETROCELLI: Hold on. Before you put it on -- please take it off.

MR. BAKER: Take it off until we get --

MR. PETROCELLI: 20847 where?

MR. P. BAKER: Starting at line 3.

MR. BAKER: 3 to 21.

(Indicating to transcript displayed on Elmo.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

You can put it up, Phil.

(Mr. P. Baker complies, displays transcript on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You testified that you saw the figure. (Reading.)

Question: And you saw that figure for only

a second or so, isn't that correct?

Your answer, yes.

Question: You told us that that figure was

attired in something dark and it could have

been a robe, you don't know what it is; is

that correct?

Then there's some objections.

It could have been a robe; is that correct?

Answer: It seemed to be dark clothing. It

could have been anything.

Question: It could have been anything

because you don't know, isn't that true?

That's true.

Question: You just got a fleeting glance,

isn't that right?

Yes, sir.

Strike that. You just got a fleeting

glance, isn't that right, sir?

Yes.

MR. BAKER: Now there's one more.

MR. PETROCELLI: Read lines 22 through 25 on this point, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: You got to tell me before I --

MR. PETROCELLI: Same page. It's the very next question and answer,
it's on the screen.

MR. BAKER: (Reading.)

And you never had a chance to see the hem of

the robe swirling around or anything of that

nature, did you?

Answer: No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, you never, of course, saw what -- from your
vantage point, whether or not Mr. Simpson or whoever the person was,
had bare legs, did you?

A. No.

Q. And you never saw --

MR. BAKER: Put that back up, that's on the Elmo, please, the picture,
please.

MR. P. BAKER: That is 1456.

(Exhibit 1456 displayed on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You never saw, from your vantage point, anybody
walking along in this area. The first time you ever saw any human
being, black, African American, 6 feet tall, 200 pounds, was in the
area where you had the blue X placed on the exhibit that's on the
monitor, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. You didn't see anybody up the Rockingham portion of the driveway in
front of the garage, in front of the breakfast nook, true?

A. True.

Q. Now, is it your testimony, Mr. Park, that when you observed -- and
let's just assume that it's Mr. Simpson, okay -- lived in the place,
was an African American, he's 6 feet tall, 200 pounds, okay.

When you saw Mr. Simpson, was it simultaneously that you saw Mr.
Kaelin?

A. Almost.

Q. Now, who did you see first?

A. Mr. Kaelin.

Q. So you saw Mr. Kaelin first, and I take it that during this period
when you're talking to your boss, and you're observing out the
windscreen (sic) of your automobile, you're trying to see activities
in here because you're really concerned about whether or not you're
going to get Mr. Simpson to the airport, right?

A. Correct.

Q. So your senses are pretty good, and you're scanning the whole area
to see whether or not there's any movement, any activity whatsoever,
correct?

A. Correct.

Q. All right. And so virtually simultaneously you see Mr. Kaelin at an
area where the path intersects the driveway, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you saw Mr. Simpson for a fleeting second going into the house,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And it's your testimony in this courtroom, sir, that you didn't pay
attention to anything that Mr. Kaelin did after that fleeting second,
you just sat in your car?

A. That's correct.

Q. And Mr. Kaelin was now -- by now Mr. Simpson has entered his
residence, hasn't he?

A. I'd assume, yes.

Q. And you're still out there scanning the interior of Rockingham and
you don't pay attention to what Mr. Kaelin does?

A. No, not the whole time. After the person went into the house, I
figured somebody was there and I was a little bit more relaxed and
wasn't even looking through the gate any more, I was looking at the
dashboard and just talking on the phone.

Q. So you have a clear recollection as you sit here now, some two and
a half years later, that it wasn't any concern of yours to see where
Mr. Kaelin went, to see whether or not he was going to open the gate,
and now you got relaxed and you have a recollection of looking at the
dashboard. Had the dashboard moved in the interim?

A. No.

Q. All right. And there was no -- there certainly wouldn't have been,
Mr. Park, any additional information on the dashboard that hadn't been
there for the minute you'd been up there, correct?

A. True.

Q. All right. Now, then you -- some minutes later Mr. Kaelin opens the
gate for you?

A. About a minute.

Q. Okay. So you saw him at the point where the green arrow is on the
exhibit, and you then -- there was no other activity, you looked away,
and approximately a minute later you see Mr. Kaelin at the gate
control box, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you don't know what happened to Mr. Kaelin during the whole
other time, right?

A. Don't really care.

Q. Okay. And whether you care or not, you don't know?

A. Don't know.

Q. And in that 60 seconds you hadn't observed him walking in any
direction, north, south, east, or west, or any variations thereof,
true?

A. True.

Q. Now, after you then get the gate open, you drive from the gate
directly to the area where the front entrance is, true, sir?

A. True.

Q. And when you -- you didn't have to wait for the dog or anything
like that, did you?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. You just drove straight in; there was no dog crossing your path or
anything, right?

A. No.

Q. Okay. After you get there, you get out of your vehicle, and is it
Kato that puts the golf bag in the vehicle?

A. From what I remember, yes.

Q. And was it you that put the -- strike that.

You thought originally, your memory was that there were two duffel
bags in that little entranceway area; isn't that correct?

A. That's what I thought, yes.

Q. Thank you.

This was one of the duffel bags, right?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: And this was 1064?

MR. P. BAKER: Civil 897.

MR. BAKER: 897.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Your recollection of the events on the night of June
12, 1994 was that there was two duffel bags; you put those both in the
back of the car, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And in fact one of those purported duffel bags was a foldover suit
garment bag, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So your recollection in that regard was a little -- little off,
huh?

A. Yes.

Q. And then, sir, after you put the garment bag and the -- Kato put
the golf bag in the back, that's when you had this encounter with Kato
relative to the flashlight and whether there was an earthquake; is
that right?

A. That correct.

Q. And it was after that that you had -- Mr. Simpson comes out of the
front door and he's dressed in stone-washed blue jeans and a white
T-shirt or white shirt, correct?

A. I don't understand the time line there. He just -- that was the
first time he came out, no.

Q. Well, after you had pulled in, opened the door, how long was it
till Mr. Simpson came out of the front door of that house dressed in a
white shirt and stone-washed Levi's?

A. Five or six minutes.

Q. And have you a specific recollection of that?

A. Yes.

Q. All right. And in the interim was he carrying anything when he came
out?

A. The Louis Vitton bag.

Q. The Louis Vitton bag, then Gucci bag?

A. What I thought.

Q. Okay. Fair enough. And he put that down and walked over towards the
Rockingham portion of the driveway, right?

A. From what I remember, yes.

Q. And you didn't obviously keep track of where he went, did you?

A. No.

Q. And then -- and you were chatting with Kato about the thumps and
flashlights, et cetera?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Simpson came back, and you had already put the Louis Vitton bag
in the trunk, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And came back, and he had another package with him, didn't he?

A. Came back from where?

Q. When he came back from the Rockingham driveway, he had another
package with him, didn't he?

A. Not that I remember.

Q. You don't have a recollection one way or the other?

A. No.

Q. All right. And then after that, was there this discussion
concerning getting a flashlight from inside the house?

A. That who?

Q. Did you hear a conversation between Kato and O.J. relative to
getting a flashlight so that they could do a search inside --

A. No, I didn't.

Q. You actually followed them into the house, didn't you?

A. At one time, I was in the front section of the house, the entrance.

Q. By the way, did you ever see any blood in that front section?

A. No.

Q. Did you ever see any blood in the front entranceway?

A. No.

Q. When you were bending down to pick up the -- garment bag or
whatever, did you ever see any blood in that area?

A. No.

Q. The lights were on, there's a lamp observed, called in this case,
at least, the coach lamps?

A. Yes.

Q. In other words, there's a lamp in his front entrance. There's a
lamp above the right and left side of the door as you face it,
correct?

A. From what I remember, yes.

Q. All right. And these were both on, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And there was absolutely nothing observed by you that even closely
resembled blood in the foyer, on the ground, or in the entranceway,
true?

A. Correct.

MR. BAKER: This a good place, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, come back at 1:30.

Don't talk about this case, don't form or express any opinions.

THE CLERK: Exhibit 897 was marked by reference.

(The instrument herein described as a leather-like bag was marked by
reference to Criminal Case No. BA097211 as Defendants' Exhibit No.
897.)

(At 11:55 A.M. a recess was taken until 1:35 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1996
1:36 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. BAKER: Thank you. Excuse me.

ALLAN PARK, the witness on the stand at the time of the luncheon
recess, having been previously duly sworn, was examined and testified
further as follows:

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BAKER:

Q. Good afternoon, sir.

A. Good afternoon.

Q. Would you put that diagram back up.

MR. P. BAKER: 1452.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's 56.

MR. P. BAKER: 56. Took a long lunch.

MR. BAKER: Have to be retrained after lunch.

MR. PETROCELLI: So the record is clear, it's 1456.

MR. BAKER: Fair enough.

(Exhibit 1456 displayed on Elmo.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, Mr. Park, the B is for the bag that you say you
noticed when you were about 20 feet away from it; is that right?

A. About 24, yes.

Q. And you believe that bag was behind the second car that was parked
over there in the cut-out area, correct?

A. It was behind the car, yes.

Q. It was behind the second car, was it not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you don't even know, after you saw Mr. Simpson go towards the
bag, you don't know if that bag was put in the trunk; you don't know
if that bag -- well, strike it.

Let me ask you this: When you talked about the bag, you talked about
Mr. Simpson being at the back of the limo with -- with duffle bags and
looking into the bags, you were meaning to imply that you went over,
picked up the bag where the "B" was, took it into the interior of the
limousine with him; isn't that true?

A. No, that's not true. I never saw where he put the bag.

Q. You don't know if that bag was put in the back of the car; you
don't know if that bag was put in the cab of the car, do you?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Do you -- you don't know if Mr. Simpson was, in this automobile
going to the airport, looking in that bag or any other bag, do you?

A. No.

Q. And when you put the -- the -- directly where this blue cross is
put on this diagram that's on the monitor, these were -- were potted
plants, were they not, right there (indicating)?

A. I believe so.

Q. And you directed them to put the X up between those potted plants,
did you not, sir?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. Now, as I understand your testimony, on -- on examination by Mr.
Petrocelli, the -- you say the X should have gone down below the area
where it's placed because Mr. Simpson had to kind of cut the corner.

And you could view this all at night from your vantage point out on
Ashford, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you also said that you could view this -- and at that time, you
said there were no lights on downstairs, right?

A. From what I viewed, no.

Q. And you also testified, of course, that Mr. Simpson was in dark
clothing. And he's a black African-American, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And now, when you were directing the -- the mark to be put, which
was -- there was an arrow on that, whatever that Teleprompter thing
was, that came up on the -- on the Elmo, was it not?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And that's how you directed them to put the mark on there, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you asked them -- when you were directed where to put the mark,
you said up further, not down; isn't that true, sir?

A. I don't really -- don't remember that.

Q. I know I'm asking you a long time ago.

Let me just read from your transcript, when you put that mark on
there, at 2808 --

MR. PETROCELLI: I have 2571.

MS. MOLINARO: What's the citation?

MR. BAKER: 20808. 20000 -- Yeah.

You want to see it?

MS. MOLINARO: I got it.

MR. P. BAKER: You want it on the board?

MR. LEONARD: Wait. Let him read it.

MR. BAKER: Now, let me -- (Reading:) "Q. Can you please indicate, if

you would, sir, direct that arrow, if you

can find it on this photograph."

I'm sorry. Did you.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I think that's the wrong place. I think
it's referred to --

Can I discuss this at side bar?

THE COURT: Okay.

THE COURT REPORTER: With the reporter?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't have any objection to Mr. Baker reading what
he wants to read, but I think this particular exhibit that he's got on
the television was not created at the reference that Mr. Baker was
citing (referring to exhibit 1456). But I believe if you read here, it
was created here. And you can tell by the reference to the circle. And
the circle being this circle right here, Your Honor (indicating).

MR. BAKER: I can't tell what you're pointing to. What were you
pointing to?

MR. PETROCELLI: Right there.

You see, he's trying to direct him away from that circle.

I think that's where he marks that particular exhibit up in the
record. And the reference that Mr. Baker would like to cite -- I'll
turn the page when you're finished reading.

THE COURT: Okay.

(Court reads transcript.)

THE COURT: I don't understand your point.

MR. PETROCELLI: My point is that Mr. Baker is indicating that this
mark was placed on here at this point in the testimony, and I believe
it was placed on here at this point in the testimony (indicating).

I'm suggesting to Mr. Baker that this may be a different exhibit that
he marked up, not the one --

THE COURT: That's what, 139?

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we check that out? We need a little time to see if
this corresponds to 139.

MR. BAKER: Well, Your Honor, there's only one person that -- he said
it's clear that from this page -- just let me finish, please -- that
he is talking about putting a mark as to where he first saw the
person, between 10:54 and 10:55, walk into the house.

THE COURT: The question is, does it refer to 139?

MR. BAKER: I don't know that they are referring to that exhibit in
relationship to this. I don't know that they are --

MR. PETROCELLI: Your question, though, is directed to this exhibit
that's on the TV monitor.

MR. BAKER: Sure it is.

MR. PETROCELLI: I think there's a problem --

MR. BAKER: I don't think there's a problem. He's asking him -- there's
only one person he testified to that went into the house between 10:54
and 10:55.

THE COURT: Can I see the previous page?

MR. BAKER: Sure.

(Court reads page 20807.)

MR. BAKER: I couldn't tell from there. That's all I can tell you.

I can't tell if 139 refers to this report.

THE REPORTER: Mr. Baker, what page is this?

MR. BAKER: 20808.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can he ask the question with regard -- without regard
to that particular exhibit?

MR. BAKER: No; it makes no sense.

MR. PETROCELLI: This center mark, I can't tell what that is. It looks
like it's this document and not that document.

The page I was referring to was at 20571, and the page Mr. Baker is
referring to is 20808.

Did you find the exhibit number?

MS. MOLINARO: Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's this one.

(Counsel displays an exhibit.).

MS. MOLINARO: If you read to line 23 -- and he marked it.

MR. PETROCELLI. They marked it right down there.

(Referring to page 20808.)

MR. BAKER: That makes no sense. That's --

MR. PETROCELLI: That's what's quoted.

MR. BAKER: Well, and the reason this makes no sense, sir, is, as you
will see, in each one of these, Allan Park is up here. I don't know
who BK is. I assume that's Brian Kaelin; that's where he came out the
path, referring to an exhibit entitled 139-A.

MR. BAKER: There are no potted plants.

MS. MOLINARO: Potted plants?

MR. BAKER: I know. But it says by the arrow.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's clear to this testimony if you're referring to
this circle here, (referring to Exhibit 1456 of civil transcript) he's
trying to direct -- this is where it's being marked 20571 of the
criminal trial transcript and --

THE COURT: Well --

MR. PETROCELLI: Why don't you read this.

MR. BAKER: I like this.

MR. PETROCELLI: If you don't read this, I'm going to --

THE COURT: Why don't we do this: Inasmuch as the record is ambiguous,
I'm going to let him examine, and you can examine on that part of it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

THE COURT: Let the jury decide which one you're referring to. There's
no other way to decide.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, they should have done a better job at the
criminal trial.

THE COURT: That may be so.

MR. PETROCELLI: 139-B is Allan Park.

MR. BAKER: Where's the arrow?

MS. MOLINARO: It's a white arrow, Mr. Baker, and I think you can't see
it because of the flash.

MR. PETROCELLI: They're clearly not referring to this. This is what
the witness is talking about in Mr. Baker's page reference.

MS. MOLINARO: Read to page 20809; you'll see the 139-B.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MS. MOLINARO: If you read to page 20809, you will see at line 11 -- 10
and 11, they marked it 139-B, as in "boy." Flip the page.

MR. BAKER: Sure.

MS. MOLINARO: Sorry.

MR. BAKER: No, it's all right.

(Counsel turns page.)

THE COURT: Oh yeah, there it is.

MS. MOLINARO: Yes.

THE COURT: That's what it looks like.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. Thank you:

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. BAKER: Can we put that back up.

MR. P. BAKER: The transcript?

MR. BAKER: No, no, the diagram.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Now, Mr. Park, when you were directing where the
blue X is, you requested that person who is actually putting the mark
on it to come straight out from that kind of faint circle.

MR. BAKER: Can you zoom in there and move it over in the center.

(Referring to Exhibit 1456.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You directed them to come straight out from this
circular area, did you not?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't request them to come down and go down by the potted
plants or up by the potted plants; you said to come straight out, and
that's why the X is put there. And then you approved the placing of
the X in that area, correct?

A. That's correct. I said around there.

Q. Let me see if that's --

(Pause in proceedings.)

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Okay.

You went over your deposition when -- your trial testimony, rather,
when you were placing that mark, you went over your trial testimony
with Mr. Petrocelli, did you not?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. You said at 2571, line 21 -- can you show us on this diagram where
you first saw that person. "A. Hum, just if you go where the

circle is, go straight back. "No, the other way a little

bit further. It was about there, around

that area."

That's what you testified to, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you didn't think that they should go up and down from the
driveway, did you not?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't testify in any other proceeding other than today,
that Mr. Simpson had to kind of round the corner to get into his
driveway, did you?

A. No.

Q. In other words, all the other times you ever testified, the only
time you testified that he had to kind of round the corner was today,
true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And yet, you've been asked about this incident under penalty of
perjury, now, at least four times, true?

A. Yes, in different ways.

Q. Now, on the -- on the way to the airport, Mr. Simpson never
indicated to you he was hot, after he turned the air conditioner, did
he?

A. No.

Q. And just one other area. And that is, you had certainly heard
engines that sounded like Ford Broncos and were even familiar with
Ford Broncos before --

THE REPORTER: Excuse me, "before . . ."

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) June 14, 1994. It should be 12. I apologize.

You were familiar with the sounds, even of Ford Broncos and the
engines, before June 12 of '94, right?

A. I've heard the sounds.

Q. And you didn't hear any sound that was remotely similar to a Ford
Bronco the evening of June 12, 1994?

A. I heard no sounds.

Q. And just one other.

You did believe that the person that you saw for the first second when
you first saw the "cross" going into the house could have been wearing
a bathrobe and so testified, did you not, sir?

A. Could have been wearing anything, yes.

Q. Let me read from your trial testimony, 2657 at line 18 through 23.

MR. PETROCELLI: One more time. Sorry.

MR. BAKER: Sure. 20657, and commencing at line 18, through 23.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

MR. BAKER: Tell me when you've got it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Got it.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

(Reading:) "Q. Now, with regard to this

person you indicated you saw somewhere out

there in the driveway area, you've described

it with some particularity, so I won't go

over that in detail. Could that person have --

could that person have had a robe on? "A. Could have."

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) That's what you testified to on March 2, 1995,
correct?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

I have nothing further at this time, Your Honor.

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. Did you at any time in the course of this civil proceeding, ever
get a call from Mr. Baker to come talk to him about the facts of this
case?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. At any time did you ever get a call from Mr. Leonard to talk about
the facts of this case?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Have you ever received a call from any member of Mr. Simpson's
legal team to discuss the facts of this case?

A. No.

Q. If you had gotten such a call, would you have talked to them?

A. Yes. I have no reason not to.

Q. And could you try to keep your voice up?

A. Yes.

Q. We're getting closer.

MR. BAKER: Not down, up.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you've talked to lots of lawyers, in court
and out of court, since June 12, 1994, haven't you?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. And the first lawyer that ever got in touch with you is a man named
Robert Shapiro, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And he was with a man named Skip Taft, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And they represented O.J. Simpson, right?

A. As far as I knew, yes.

Q. And they called you on the telephone, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And they interviewed you about this case, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that occurred on what date, sir?

A. June 14.

Q. So, two days later?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, that was a telephone call, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Did you know -- did they tell you that they were taping that
telephone call?

A. No, they didn't.

Q. And did you later find out that they, in fact, without your
knowledge or permission, taped that call?

MR. BAKER: Objection. This is irrelevant, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: It is not.

MR. BAKER: Well, those are not his present lawyers.

THE COURT: Subject to motion to strike, if I find it irrelevant, you
may move to strike.

THE WITNESS: Repeat it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you find out later on that they had taped
that interview with you, without your permission or your knowledge?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And did you later find out that there was a transcript of that
interview?

A. Yes, I did.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'd like to refer to some portions of that transcript.

MR. BAKER: I don't think --

MR. PETROCELLI: Next in order?

THE CLERK: 2205.

(The instrument herein referred to as "Shapiro/Taft" interview of Alan
Park was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2205.)

MR. BAKER: Wait a minute. Wait a minute.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to now direct some questions with regard to
the questions you were asked and answers that you gave on June 14 --

MR. BAKER: Wait a minute. I'm objecting to putting up there.

MR. PETROCELLI: On what ground?

MR. BAKER: But there is no evidence and there's no foundation.

THE COURT: Hold on a second.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's prior consistent statements, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Just a minute.

MR. BAKER: May I see that?

MR. PETROCELLI: Oh, you have this, Mr. Baker.

Don't look at all my notes.

(Mr. Petrocelli hands document to Mr. Baker.)

THE COURT: Okay. Overruled.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'd like to approach because I want to see what
he's going to put in.

THE COURT: Okay. You may.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench with the reporter.)

THE COURT: Go ahead.

MR. PETROCELLI: The three topics you -- the three topics on which you
sought, to impeach Mr. Park I will rehabilitate with prior consistent
statements are where you saw Mr. Simpson, page 2.

MR. BAKER: Okay, if it's where you say I saw --

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me finish.

MR. BAKER: I apologize.

MR. PETROCELLI: Mr. Simpson, also at page 4 and 5, dark clothing -- on
the subject of clothing and also the issue of the bag, all of which he
said two days after the event in question.

MR. BAKER: Well Your Honor, first of all, it said he saw something
cross the driveway and go into the house. That isn't an inconsistent
-- that's an inconsistent statement; that's not a prior consistent
statement.

So under 1237 or 36 whatever it is, you can't accomplish that.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your client is taking the position he came out the
door and only went as far as benches.

You're going to argue to the jury that he was at no time out of the
driveway.

Mr. Park's testimony establishes otherwise. He is out.

You sought to impeach his credibility and ability to perceive, and I'm
rehabilitating him.

THE COURT: Okay. In terms of rehabilitation, you can read it. I'm not
going to allow that into evidence, the document into evidence.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

MR. BAKER: So then don't put it up, please.

MR. PETROCELLI: Why can't I put it up?

THE COURT: Because you don't have any foundation for it.

You want to lay foundation for it, you can offer it.

MR. PETROCELLI: He just said he was tape-recorded, and this is a
transcript of it.

I can show it to him; he can read it; and he can verify this is a
transcript of his interview.

THE COURT: Well, that's still not going to permit the entire interview
to come in.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, I'll just read it, then okay? I won't put it up.

THE COURT: All right.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Mr. Park, we'll read from certain portions of the
transcript of the interview you gave to Mr. Shapiro and Mr. Taft on
June 14, asking you some questions, okay?

Did you tell Mr. Shapiro and Mr. Taft the following:

"And as I was talking to him on the phone, I was parked in the
driveway. And at that time, I saw somebody cross the driveway and go
into the house."

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. Page 2 --

That was lines 25 through 27.

Page 4, lines 17 through 21. (Reading:) "Q. Where was the person when
you

first saw that person? "A. I saw him coming at least,

you know, just -- it was dark. So he came

towards where the other cars were parked, up

there where the Rolls Royce and stuff. They

came from that area and walked into the

house. "Q. When you say "they," you saw

two people? "A. No, just one. Just one. "Q. One person? "A. One
person. "Q. Was the person running or

walking? "A. I would say walking pretty

quickly, not running."

You gave those answers?

A. Correct.

Q. You were also asked about the clothing.

I'd like to read your answer with regard to clothing. Page 5, line 17:
(Reading:) "And the person was dressed

how? "A. Dark. They were in dark

clothes."

Did you give that answer?

A. Yes.

Q. Again at page 3, line 12: (Reading:) "And like I said, I saw

somebody go in the house. They were just --

it was all dark clothes. It was -- you

know, I could not see who it was or, you

know, I just saw somebody go in, and they

were wearing a lot of dark clothes.

Did you give those answers?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And on the question of this bag, while I'm on this interview, given
just two days after the events, on page 14, line 15, you were asked a
question about the bag.

Your answer, line 15: "There -- the bag, the one of

the bags -- there was a bag laying -- like I

said, there was a bag laying in front of his

door, the front door, and then there was a

bag laying over towards the other cars,

where his Rolls Royce and stuff was parked.

At one time the blond-haired person who was

at the house offered to go get the bag. He

said well, 'I'll go get that bag and put it

in the trunk,' and O.J. kept saying, 'no,

no, no, that's okay, I'll get it, I'll get

it. Don't worry about it, let me get that

bag.'"

Did you give those answers?

A. Yes.

Q. That bag that Mr. Baker and I showed you previously, that blue bag,
was that the bag you saw?

A. No, it wasn't.

Q. And by the way, Mr. Baker asked you some questions about my showing
you the pictures of that bag. Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. Did I show you pictures of all sorts of luggage?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Did I ask you whether or not you could find the bag?

MR. BAKER: Leading and suggestive, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did I ask you whether or not, in all the
various pictures of items of luggage I showed you, if you could find
the bag among the pictures that you saw that night?

A. Yes.

Q. And were you able to do so?

A. No.

Q. Did I show you the photograph of that blue bag?

A. Yes.

Q. Did I ask you if that is the bag you saw?

A. Yes.

Q. What did you say?

A. No.

Q. Did I then tell you Mr. Simpson claims this is the bag; does that
refresh your recollection? ?

A. Yes.

Q. And what did I -- did you say?

A. No.

Q. Did you not tell the grand jury when you testified under oath, on
whether Mr. Simpson was wearing dark clothes the following --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. He can't just, without a question,
just read from the transcript. The transcript can only be used to
impeach if he gives an incorrect answer.

MR. PETROCELLI: Page --

MR. BAKER: That's improper.

MR. PETROCELLI: Page 257.

MR. BAKER: He objected to it yesterday.

THE COURT: Overruled.

This is rehabilitation of cross-examination.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's at -- It's at page 257; it's lines 23 through 25.

MR. BAKER: Fine.

MR. PETROCELLI: (Reading:) "Q. What was he wearing? "A. I should say,
from what I can

tell, it was dark clothes. I cannot tell

what kind of clothes, suit or anything. It

was just a dark shirt and dark pants."

Was that your testimony?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, Mr. Baker showed you the -- that mark where you put the cross,
indicating where you saw the dark figure going into the house. Do you
recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And he read from the criminal trial testimony certain lines, and I
want to read the next two lines that he did not read to you, okay? But
I will start at page 20571, Mr. Baker, and --

MR. BAKER: What is it?

MR. PETROCELLI: 20571. And I'll read lines 21 through 28.

MR. PETROCELLI: And can you put 1456 on the Elmo.

(Mr. Foster complies, displays Exhibit 1456.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This is where you were asked on that gizmo to
indicate the spot. Do you recall that, Mr. Park?

A. Yes.

Q. (Reading:) "Q. Can you show us on this

diagram where you first saw that person. "A. Hum, just if you go where
the

circle is, go straight back. No, the other

way, a little bit farther. It was about

there, (indicating) around that area. "Q. Okay. Roughly that area? "A.
Yeah.

Was it roughly that area?

A. That's correct.

Q. Mr. Baker asked you a series of questions about your purpose in and
concern in going to Rockingham on June 12. Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. He asked you, wasn't it just your purpose and concern to pick up
Mr. Simpson and get him to the airport. Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you were trying to find 360 North Rockingham, was it your
purpose and concern to find the address?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put up the picture of --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, on this issue of purpose and
concern, when you went to North Rockingham that night, was it your
purpose and concern to sit and smoke a cigarette?

A. No.

Q. Or to make numerous calls from the intercom?

A. No.

Q. Or to go behind the house and look for noises?

A. No.

Q. Or use the cell phone?

A. No.

Q. But all those things happened, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. All right.

So when you were driving up 360 North Rockingham, with your purpose
and concern to find that address, you saw those numbers, right?

(Indicating to Elmo.)

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you see a picture of that large -- as Mr. Baker said, a very
large vehicle, white in color?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Couple of feet away from the curb?

A. Yes.

Q. You drove by there the first time at 10:23 or so?

A. Correct.

Q. You drove by there the second time at 10:40?

A. Correct.

Q. At 10:40, you stopped at that precise location?

MR. BAKER: This is totally leading questions.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you stop right in front of that vehicle at
10:40?

A. Around that time, yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you stopped there, when you passed there
the first time looking at 360, did you or did you not see the car
there?

MR. BAKER: That's --

A. I did not see it.

Q. When you went by there around 10:40 and stopped to assess the
driveway, did you or did you not see that car there?

A. I don't -- no, I did not see that car.

Q. Is where that car is now within the field of vision that you had
when you were looking at the curb and looking at the driveway?

A. Yes.

Q. Would you have seen that car if it were there at the time?

MR. BAKER: Oh, come on. Objection.

THE WITNESS: Yes.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike.

THE COURT: It is stricken.

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me. What number is that on the Elmo?

MR. FOSTER: 191.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Were you INTERVIEWED by police officers on June
15, 1994?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Did they ask you whether you saw any vehicles, a Bronco parked out
there, 360 North Rockingham?

A. I don't remember if they did or not.

Q. Okay.

May I show you this document.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is the 6-15-94 police interview.

MR. BAKER: Is this Carr and Tippin again?

MR. PETROCELLI: Don't -- just read it to yourself and don't say
anything on the record.

A. The whole thing?

Q. No just --

A. Oh what you've --

Q. Just what I --

A. Okay.

Q. -- highlighted. Yeah.

(Witness reviews transcript.)

Q. Right there. There's the date.

Okay?

A. Yeah.

Q. Does this refresh your recollection about the interview?

A. Yes.

Q. I'm now going to ask you some questions.

Did you tell the police officers that you arrived around 10:25 p.m. on
June 12, 1994?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, this is outside the scope.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And did you tell the police officers that when
you drove by the front of Mr. Simpson's residence on Rockingham, you
didn't recall seeing the car parked there?

A. Correct.

Q. Is there any reason, Mr. Park, you would have to come into this
courtroom and tell anything but the truth?

A. No reason at all.

Q. How much did you get that night for all your trouble?

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object, Your Honor; relevancy, outside the
scope. He got 20 percent.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) How much did you get, Mr. Park?

THE COURT: You may answer.

THE WITNESS: Possibly about 40 bucks.

(Laughter.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) As you told the police on the 15th, you didn't --
you didn't recall seeing a car there, right?

A. Correct; I didn't see a car there.

Q. And you didn't recall seeing a car there when you told them that,
true?

A. True.

Q. And you didn't recall seeing a car there and had no reason to look
for it when you were attempting to look at the address, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And in fact, you know, when you -- when you were coming down
Rockingham and you started looking for addresses at 322, I think you
testified earlier this morning, you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. Can you tell us if there were any cars at 322?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. Can you tell us if there were any cars at 338?

MR. PETROCELLI: There's no evidence there is a 338, Your Honor.

THE WITNESS: No.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) Can you tell us if there are any cars at all, as you
have a recollection, sitting here now, two and a half years later,
parked on either side of Rockingham?

A. Its been a long time. No.

Q. Now, when you first described in your interview with Mr. Shapiro
this person who was going across the driveway, you told him you
thought that person was a Caucasian when you were first asked, did you
not?

MR. PETROCELLI: That misstates it, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: Let me just read it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Read through line 9.

MR. BAKER: Let me just read, will you? I'll read what I want to read.
This is my examination.

(Reading:) And said where -- "Q. Where was the person when you

first saw that person? "A. I saw him coming at least, you

know, it was dark, so he came towards where

the other cars were parked up there, where

the Rolls Royce and stuff, and they came

into (sic) that area and walked into the

house. "Q. When you say 'they,' you saw

two people? "No, just one. "One person? "One person. "Was the person
walking or

running? "I would say walking pretty

quickly. Not running. "And the person was dressed

darkly (sic)? "A. Yes. "Q. Was it a male or female? "A. I couldn't
tell you. "Q. Could you tell whether they

were Caucasian or non-Caucasian?

And your answer, "Caucasian."

And Mr. Shapiro says "Caucasian?"

And you say, " . . . well, black."

That's what you first said?

MR. PETROCELLI: He said Well, I mean, black (sic).

MR. BAKER: That isn't what it says on my transcript.

MR. PETROCELLI: That's what it says on mine.

MR. BAKER: You've got a bad one.

MR. PETROCELLI: I've got the accurate one.

Q. (BY MR. BAKER) You also told them that Mr. -- Mr. Simpson was
wearing blue jeans, a white shirt and a black overcoat, and he had
taken his black overcoat in mid-June, right?

A. True.

Q. And by the way, you never saw that overcoat again, in the car or
anyplace else, did you?

A. Not that I remember, no.

Q. Could be that you were mistaken about the black overcoat, right?

A. No, I don't think so.

Q. All right.

And then you talked about a robe and you said: "Q. Could he have had a
robe on

instead of black clothes?

And you answered:

"That was one of the things I was thinking, because he said, you know,
I just got out of the shower" -- strike that.

"That was one of the things I was thinking because he said, you know,
he just got out of the shower and I figured he, you know, grabbed --
he ran out to the car, grabbed some bags. I can't say that because I
never saw him go to the car. I only saw him enter the house."

Now that's what you told Mr. Shapiro, is it not?

A. That is correct.

Q. So you were thinking that he may have been in a robe as early as
the 14th, 15th of June, two days later, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And Mr. Petrocelli, when he read from 257 of the grand jury,
stopped at line 25. Let me start where he started and read on from
line 23:

From what I could tell, it was dark clothes. It's actually an answer.
I take it back. It's got a question, question.

Let me start again. I apologize.

Line 22. (Reading:) "Q. What was he wearing? "A. From what I can tell,
it was

dark clothes. I cannot tell what kind of

dark clothes, suit or anything, just dark

shirt, dark pants. "Q. Can you tell if the shirt had

long or short sleeves? "A. No, I couldn't."

In fact, you couldn't tell if he even had pants on, correct? When you
saw something below the waist, you didn't know if he had shorts on,
pants on or if he had the robe on that we briefly talked about. Is
that true, Mr. Park?

A. Yeah, I don't know exactly what it was. It looked like clothes,
dark clothes.

MR. BAKER: Good. Nothing further.

FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. Before Mr. Simpson told you that he was in the shower, when you
initially saw him, before any conversation with him, when you
initially saw the figure enter into the house and before he told you
about taking the shower, did you think he was wearing a robe?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Objection. His state of mind is irrelevant.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

No further questions.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: I'd like to move -- if you have nothing further.

MR. PETROCELLI: I have to move in a couple of exhibits, Your Honor:
Exhibits 198, 2202, 2203, 2204, and 2205.

Thank you.

MR. BAKER: 1456, 895, 896, 897, 899.

THE COURT: Those are the bags?

We'll receive those by reference only, the bags.

THE CLERK: Yeah.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 198 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2202 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2203 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2204 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2205 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 1456 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 895 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 896 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 897 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Defendants' Exhibit 899 was
received in evidence.)

THE COURT: You're excused. Thank you.

THE WITNESS: Thank you.

THE COURT: Take ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Don't form any
opinion. Don't express anything about the case.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE CLERK: Sir, if you would, please raise your right hand to be
sworn.

WILLIAM J. BODZIAK, called as a witness on behalf of Plaintiffs, was
duly sworn and testified as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do.

THE CLERK: Thank you. Please be seated.

Please state your name and spell both your first and last names,
please.

THE WITNESS: William J. Bodziak, W-I-L-L-I-A-M J. B-O-D-Z-I-A-K.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MEDVENE:

Q. Where do you work?

A. I'm a special agent of the FBI.

Q. And?

A. In Washington, D.C.

Q. And what's your assignment?

A. I'm an examiner of questioned documents, footwear, and tire-tread
evidence in the FBI laboratory.

Q. How long have you been doing that?

A. Since 1970.

Q. Would you describe your formal schooling, please.

A. I have a master's degree in forensic science from the George
Washington University in Washington, D.C. and my undergraduate degree
is in biology from East Carolina University.

Q. Would you go through, briefly, your experience with the FBI related
to footwear examination.

A. My entire time in the FBI or just with footwear?

Q. Your entire time.

A. From 1970 to August of '73, I was a field agent assigned to the New
Haven and Baltimore divisions in an investigative capacity.

I was then transferred in 1973 to the laboratory, to the document
section of the laboratory, where I underwent and completed three years
of training under the senior examiners there, in the field of
questioned documents, footwear, and tire-tread-impression evidence.

Q. The nature of your work with the FBI in terms of footwear
examination is what?

A. As a footwear examiner, I make comparisons of footwear impressions
that are obtained from the crime scene. These can be in the form of
photographed impressions, impressions on actual pieces of evidence
that they've taken from the scene.

They can be cast to footwear impressions or adhesive lifts or gelatin
lifts of the impressions, and I make physical comparisons against
shoes of suspected -- suspects in the case.

I also, in cases where there is either no known suspect or where the
shoes of the suspect have never been obtained, try to determine the
brand name or manufacturer of the footwear, and if possible, the sizes
of the footwear.

Q. Other than the training and work experience of the FBI, have you
received any other training in terms of footwear examination?

A. Yes. I've attended numerous symposiums and seminars, both
domestically and internationally, in this topic area.

I've also visited, for the purpose of gathering information related to
that type of an examination, I have visited over 30 footwear
manufacturing facilities.

Q. Have you provided training for others?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. In what?

A. I teach a course in footwear impression examination that's offered
at our FBI Academy at Quantico, Virginia for examiners from other
state and federal laboratories around the country.

I've also been asked on numerous occasions to teach at other locations
throughout the United States and also in several other countries.

Q. Are you a member of any scientific associations?

A. Yes. I'm a member of the International Association for
Identification, of which I was the past Chairman of the Subcommittee
of Footwear and Tire-Tread Evidence.

I'm a member of the American Academy of Forensic Science; active --
although there's no formal membership, I'm active in the International
Association of Forensic Science.

I'm a member of the American Society of Questioned Document Examiners,
and a Diplomat of the American Board of Forensic Document Examiners.

Q. Have you chaired any symposiums on footwear impressions and
examination of footwear?

A. Yes. In 1994, I hosted and organized a symposium at our FBI Academy
involving over 230 individuals, representing 30 different countries,
on the topic area of footwear and tire-tread-impression evidence.

In addition, with regard to the International Association of Forensic
Science, I was the section chairman of the section on that topic in
1987; in Vancouver, Canada in 1990, and in Adelaide, Australia in
1993, and in Duseldorf, Germany.

Q. Have you published articles and books on footwear and tire-tread
examination?

A. Yes. In 1990, I developed a book entitled "Footwear Impression
Evidence" that was published in 1990 by Elsevier, E-L-S-E-V-I-E-R
Sciences Publishing Company, and I have written numerous articles on
the area of footwear-impression evidence.

Q. Have you qualified as an expert in many state and federal courts
throughout the United States?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. I want to bring you to this case.

Were you contacted by the LA Police Department in mid-1994 in
connection with their investigation of the murders of Ronald Goldman
and Nicole Brown Simpson?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Approximately when was that?

A. It was in the beginning of August of 1994.

Q. What were you asked to do?

A. I was first telephonically contacted that the evidence was being
sent to the laboratory, and then received 30 photographs.

These photographs were what I call examination quality photographs;
that is, they are taking -- taken directly over a footwear impression
with a scale in them, and so they can be enlarged to natural size.

And I was requested to determine what brand or manufacturer of shoes
made those impressions, and also to determine the size of those
impressions, the shoe size.

MR. MEDVENE: Could you put on the board what's been marked 41, please.

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled "Shoe Prints at
Bundy, June 13, 1994, was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 41.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) 41 is a board entitled Shoe Prints at Bundy, June
13, 1994. That has 15 separate photographs on it.

Does this board contain certain of the photographs included in the 30
you were originally sent?

A. Yes, sir, it does.

Q. And have you previously received all of these photographs from LA
Police Department as photos that were taken at the crime scene June
13, 1994?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. What is depicted in the photographs?

And you can approach the board, if that would be more helpful.

A. I can see it from here, if it's okay.

Q. Sure.

A. At the top right corner, as you face the board, with the label Q367
and Q68 is a general area -- I think people refer to that as the
caged-in area. It's inside the front gate.

It depicts the victim, Nicole Brown Simpson; it also depicts at some
distance, some footwear impressions and the first two steps or two or
three steps as you enter the gate and head west toward the back of the
house.

MR. MEDVENE: For the record, that's Exhibit 43.

(The instrument herein referred to as Shoe Prints at Bundy, June 13,
1994 containing 15 separate photographs was marked for identification
as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 43.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Yes, sir. Go ahead.

A. The two photographs below that are --

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me one second.

Q68 is exhibit 2207.

Q67 is exhibit 2209.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph entitled Q68 was
marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2207.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph entitled Q67 was
marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2209.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Please go ahead.

A. Q67 and Q68 are closer photographs of the same area labeled with
those same numbers in the photograph at the top right-hand side. in
the chart Q67 and Q68.

Q. To the left of the top of the chart marked B is also a photograph
showing a portion of Nicole Brown Simpson's body, the first three
steps, and two impressions on there marked A and B. And then below --

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me. The top photo, B, is Exhibit 44. The one with
an A is 2206, and B under it is 2208.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photo labeled with A was marked
for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2206.)

(The instrument herein referred to as Photo labeled with B was marked
for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2208.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Could you go ahead, please.

A. The two photographs below, labeled A and B, are enlargements of the
same designated footwear impressions.

In the top photograph, in the next column, moving to the left, which
would be the center column of the chart, is a picture taken from the
top of those first three steps and pointing backwards toward the -- I
believe it's the west direction, to the back of the driveway.

It might be easier to look at if you tilted your head to the side.

And it depicts four more footwear impressions, which are labeled C, D,
E, and F.

MR. MEDVENE: That's Exhibit 45.

Below that C is Exhibit 48 and D is Exhibit 49.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Would you tell us what they are?

A. Yes. Those are close-up, what I had called examination quality
photographs, which were taken separately, which the scale in this case
is a ruler in those photographs, so they could be later enlarged to a
precise natural size.

On the next column to the left at the top, with the letters F, G, H, I
and J, that is a continuing photograph of the next segment of the
sidewalk heading toward the back of the house, and depicts five of the
footwear impressions.

And then two of those, you're -- or one of those, F, Is at the bottom
of that column. And in the middle, E, is one which is also depicted in
the center top photograph.

The E and F are, again, natural size or examination quality
photographs which were taken with a ruler so they could, if needed be
enlarged to a natural size.

MR. MEDVENE: For purposes of the record, the photograph at the top
with F, G, H, I and J is Exhibit 46.

Underneath E is Exhibit 50.

Underneath that F is Exhibit 51.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Would you go to the next column, sir.

A. Yes. The top left hand of the chart, that photograph has the
initials G, H, I and J. That is, again, a little bit further back on
the same walkway at Bundy.

And below that are two additional photographs, G and I, which are
again examination quality photographs, some of the ones which were
sent to me initially with a ruler in them, and depicting individual
footwear impressions at Bundy,

MR. MEDVENE: For the record, the photo at the top, G, H, I, J, is
Exhibit 47.

The one under it, G, is Exhibit 52.

The one under that I is Exhibit 53.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) When you received the photos that you told us a
few moments ago that you received from the LA Police Department, what
was the first step you took to attempt to determine the brand name or
manufacturer of the bloody shoe prints found at Bundy?

A. The FBI maintains a computerized footwear data base of thousands of
designs, of shoe designs, for this purpose, because this is one of the
functions or services we provide to law enforcement agencies across
the country.

I first searched this impression or these impressions through that
data base, but was unable to find it there.

Q. What did you do?

A. Well, I looked at the impressions and the characteristics in those
impressions, and I noticed some individual features about them which,
based on my knowledge of footwear manufacturers, led me to believe
that this was a high end or expensive Italian shoe.

Some of those features were the fact that the design or pattern in the
sole was the same in the heel, meaning sometimes there's a separate
design in the heel, and that is normally an indicator when the design
is identical, that it's a one unit -- a one-piece unit that has been
molded and has a raised heel, and the design is made from that mold at
the same time.

There was also a perimeter that ran around the border of the design of
the heel and the sole. There was somewhat of a pointed toe on the
inner corner of the heel. And in some of the photographed impressions,
you could see there was an angle, as if the point of the heel had been
cut off.

And, in fact, this is a characteristic which is intentionally included
in the mold of the shoe -- in certain shoes. Normally, more expensive
ones.

And based on these characteristics and the fact that it was a
nonathletic pattern, it wasn't typical of an athletic shoe, I was of
the opinion that it was a high-end Italian shoe.

So I looked through the data and information on importers,
manufacturers, and people who deal with these types of shoes. And I
identified approximately 80 of those that deal with expensive Italian
shoes. And I contacted those places to determine if they were familiar
with this design or if it was their design.

At the same time, I contacted eight other laboratories around the
world that also have a computerized data base and might have that
design in their data base.

MR. MEDVENE: May I approach, Your Honor?

THE COURT: (Nods affirmatively.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) As a result of your contacts, did you receive
anything?

A. Yes. I received a pair -- or, not a pair, but two right shoes of a
Bruno Magli design. One was known as Lyon, L-Y-O-N, and the other was
known as a Lorenzo, L-O-R-E-N-Z-O.

Q. I place before you, or I have just placed before you what's been
marked 395.

Can you tell us what that is?

THE CLERK: That will be by reference.

(The instrument herein referred to as a box containing two Bruno Magli
shoes was marked by reference to Criminal Case No. BA097211 for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 395.)

A. Yes. 395 is a box which contains two shoes. These are Bruno Magli
shoes.

They have the same sole design, but one of them has a lower profile
around the heel and has, obviously, different seams and components to
the shoe, and it's much smaller; it's a size nine and a half. And the
name of this shoe is a Lyon, or L-Y-O-N.

And the other shoe is what some people refer to as a bootie, or a
higher top, higher heeled, heel counter, and this is known as the
Lorenzo. And this is a size 12, U.S. size 12.

These shoes have a retail price of $160. They were distributed by
Bruno Magli of North America. They came in six colors in each of the
styles: Black, brown, white, olive, brandy, and blue.

And this is the blue pair, or these two are blue, because I think
they're somewhat faded from being in a show window.

Q. When were they sold and how many stores carried it?

A. They were sold between the years 1991 and 1993. There was a total
of 40 stores in the United States and Puerto Rico which sold this
shoe.

Q. They were sold in what sizes?

A. They were sold in sizes from six and a half to 13.

Q. Did you cause a photograph to be made of those shoes at the FBI
laboratory?

A. Yes, I did.

MR. MEDVENE: Would you place on the board, please, what's marked 394,
entitled Bruno Magli Shoe, with -- depicting three shoes, one with a
sole, and then a Lorenzo and a Lyon.

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled Bruno Magli Shoe,
depicting three shoes, one with a sole, and then a Lorenzo and a Lyon,
was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 394.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) We've placed on the board what's marked 394, Bruno
Magli Shoe.

Could you tell us what that is?

A. On the left is an enlargement of the shoe, of the Bruno Magli
Lorenzo shoe, which is part of -- I think this is Exhibit 395, I
believe.

Q. Yes.

A. And to the top right, marked "Lorenzo," is a -- what you call a
three-quarter shot of that shoe, not from the front or the side, but
in between.

And on the bottom is a photograph of the Lyon shoe, all on Exhibit
395.

Q. Would you mind, if it's helpful, going to the board and pointing
out some of the features that you described so the jury can see
exactly what you're talking about.

A. Okay.

MR. MEDVENE: With the Court's permission.

THE COURT: (Nods affirmatively.)

THE WITNESS: I was referring first to the design or pattern that was
evident in the impressions at the scene. And for lack of a better term
of describing each design element. I guess it could be a Z-shaped or H
on the side with a connecting bar. But each of these different
elements I will refer to as a design element. And these design
elements are consistent in their size and they're the same on the heel
as they are in the sole.

Around these design elements is a very thin but raised line, and it's
even with the depth of those design elements. And that's true, also,
not only in the heel, but also around the perimeter of the area
containing these design elements up in the sole.

Those features are even so that when an impression is left on a hard
surface, those both will be printing or can be printing, depending on
the amount of material on them.

I noticed the semipointed nature of the shoe; I noticed that the heel
was raised; that on the inner corner, that would be as you're standing
with your feet together, the corners of your heel to the inside of
your body, were intentionally, through the design and the mold, shaved
off. And this is a characteristic that I had seen in the impressions
before determining what kind of shoes they were.

Also, there is the fact that it is a nonathletic shoe design; it's not
typically found on athletic shoes. Also, the name Silga, S-I-L-G-A,
appears here in the center.

There is an ovular design which says Bruno Magli. It has a capital M
in the middle, and at the very bottom in the shadow, it says made in
Italy.

Q. Were you able to visually determine whether or not the design
elements that you've described on the shoe were similar or dissimilar
to the photographs you observed that you were sent by the LAPD of the
bloody shoe prints?

A. Yes. I received these shoes. I was able to confirm that the bloody
impressions in the photographs from the Bundy crime scene were this
design, this Bruno Magli design.

Q. Thank you.

(Witness resumes witness stand.)

Did you make a determination where these shoes were made?

A. Yes. I determined that they were made at the Silga factory. And
that's the name I pointed out to you on the bottom of the sole.

Silga is located in Civitinova Marche in Italy. C-I-V-I-T-I-N-O-V-A,
M-A-R-C-H-E.

Q. And Silga exclusively made the soles?

A. Silga owns the casts. There's a total of ten casts, and they
exclusively make the soles.

Q. Did you determine who made the tops?

A. The tops were made by a company in the same town in Italy called
4C.

That's just the numeral 4 and the capital letter C.

Q. Now, after -- after determining that the shoe design elements that
you've described visually compared to the bloody imprints you were
sent, did you make any attempt to determine what size shoe made that
imprint?

A. Yes. I obtained from Silga samples of the left and right shoe
soles, from left and right mold casts, size 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, and
47.

Q. I place before you what's been marked 399, and ask what that is.

A. These are the left and right pairs from the mold casts that Silga
supplied to me that represent the sizes from 42 through 47. Those are
European sizes.

THE CLERK: That's marked by reference, as well.

(The instrument herein referred to as left and right pairs from the
mold casts that Silga supplied to Mr. Bodziak was marked by reference
to Criminal Case No. BA097211 for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 399.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) What did you do with the soles?

A. I took the soles and made a physical comparison of the soles with
the crime-scene impressions in the photographs at Bundy, and I also
made test impressions of the soles for assistance in comparison of
those crime-scene impressions.

Q. Did you prepare enlarged charts to explain the basis for any
opinion you might offer on what size shoe left the bloody imprints
that you've just shown us that were found at Bundy?

A. Yes, I did.

MR. MEDVENE: Would you place on the board, 402, please.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

MR. MEDVENE: We're placing on the board now Exhibit 402, which is
marked "Reverse Photographs of Soles."

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled Reverse
Photographs of Soles was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 402.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And could you tell me whether or not that board
was prepared under your supervision?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. You have the soles up -- still up there with you, I believe?

A. Yes.

Q. Using this board, 402, and the soles in front of you that are 399,
could you explain to us how you're able to differentiate between sole
sizes?

A. Yes.

May I step down?

Q. Yes, sir, please.

(Witness approaches large exhibit entitled "Reverse Photographs of
Soles.")

A. I will first explain the photographs of the soles.

On this particular chart, it only represents the left soles. For
demonstration it's only necessary to talk about the left or right.
It's not necessary to talk about both. They are reverse photographs of
the soles and of course they are larger than life size.

By reverse photograph, I mean that the sole is photographed -- and
this is a left sole, goes on the bottom of a shoe. You can see it's a
left sole. And it's photographed and then the negative is turned
around and printed in reverse. That's because the impression that the
shoe makes is in that same alignment, it's actually a reversal when
you look at the bottom of the shoe.

So for demonstration purposes I have reversed these photographs.

On the bottom is part of some of the test impressions that I made of
the area enclosed in red as marked on the bottom of the reverse
pictures of the soles. And this is enlarged to a very large size so
the detail can easily be seen. So that would represent the area here
on the corner, the pointed corner of the heel.

I had mentioned before that the design elements were the same size in
both the heel and the sole. They are also the same size in each of the
different size shoes so the design element in a small 42 is the same
as in the largest 47.

When each sole size gets bigger, there will be more of these design
elements within this perimeter area in both the heel and the sole. So
the overall pattern cannot ever be the same because the design size is
consistent.

This is demonstrated with the portion of the test impression on the
bottom where you can look at the respective areas going from 47 to 46
to 45 to 44, and looking at different areas, the positioning and the
exact content of that design in those positions is not the same.

And that is how, by looking at a bloody footwear impression, or any
footwear impression by these shoes it's possible to determine not only
which sole it came from but what size sole it was.

In this case I determined that the impressions were made by the left
and right size 46 soles.

Q. Now, if you just have an impression of a heel as opposed to a sole,
are you able to tell the shoe size?

A. Yes.

Q. And again, how?

A. Because each of the heels are distinctly different and each of the
soles are distinctly different. So you could have just a sole or just
a heel or both and you can make the same determination.

MR. MEDVENE: Let me ask that we put up what's marked 403 which is
entitled "Shoe Comparison Board."

(The instrument herein described was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 403.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) And I'd like to go through that board and see if
you can explain to us what that has to do, if anything, about how you
actually went about comparing certain of the bloody shoe imprints that
you saw with the actual size 46. In other words, I want you to show me
why you say it's a 46.

A. Okay, I can explain what is on this board.

First, on the left side, as you face it, labeled shoe print E --

Q. Hold it right there. When we say shoe print E, a few minutes ago
when we were on the other board -- it's tough to work with them all --
there was a shoe print E?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that related to what we were going to look at?

A. This is an enlargement of that exact same photograph.

Q. Sorry, I interrupted. Go ahead.

A. Labeled shoe print E, FBI Q107, which is our laboratory designation
of the same letter, this is an approximate two-time enlargement of
this impression. It consists not only of the heel but of the sole as
well, and attached to it is a transparency also in a two-time
enlargement of a test impression made from the left size 46 sole.

On the right-hand side, labeled shoe print FBI 268 --

Q. There is Q68. If we were to put up that other board -- and we will
in a moment -- was that shown on the other board as one of the
footprints by the cage area?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. Go ahead.

A. This is a heel impression and over the top of that is the same
two-time enlargement transparency of the size -- European size 46 left
sole.

Well, based on comparison of the soles themselves as well as the test
impressions, and this was done with natural size photographs and the
original test impressions, I was able to determine based on the
orientation and positioning of these design elements that the only
sole size which could have made these impressions, shoe print E and
shoe print FBI Q68, was the European size 46 left sole.

None of the other sizes that I had, 42 through 45 or 47, fit the same
geometric pattern and positioning within these shoe prints.

Q. Now, were you able to convert the European size 46 to a comparable
American size?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And I want to briefly put on the TV monitor what's been marked 2210
and ask you if you could tell us what that is, if you can run it right
across?

(The instrument herein referred to as Shoe conversion chart was marked
for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2210.)

A. Okay. This is a size conversion chart that's used by Bruno Magli
specifically for this design of shoe.

I'll say also that it generally conforms with the general footwear
conversion chart as well.

On the right-hand side, the largest size -- European size that they
made in this design was a size 47, which is at the top. On the bottom
of that is the U.S. size that they manufactured on that shoe using
that sole. So the size 47 sole would be a U.S. size 13.

Just to the left of that, you have size 46 in the European size which
is the one which I had been demonstrating with. And on the bottom is
the U.S. size for that which is U.S. size 12.

And then the next is 45 and 44 and so forth, with the U.S. conversions
beneath it, going all the way down, so their smallest sole size, 38,
which is actually a -- would have been a U.S. size 6, but which they
didn't sell. According to their information, they started with the six
and a half.

Q. I see it says sizes of soles. We talked some about soles.

Underneath it says sizes of lasts. What does that mean? What's a last?

A. I went to the factory in Italy. I actually brought a last back that
was used in the production of the American or U.S. size 12 shoes.

MR. MEDVENE: May I approach?

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) I place before you what's been marked 401.

Tell us what that is, please.

A. 401 is a pair of lasts. On the lasts are the markings that were on
those shoes in the factory. 12, that's in a toe area and on the side
and also in this area, and also handwritten is a 46 and some other
notations and -- on one of those lasts in its extended form. This is
the form it would be in when the upper of the shoe is placed over this
last.

A last is actually a foot form that the shoe is built on. And the
different stitch -- the different size components that comprise the
upper after they're stitched together would be placed over this.

And of course at that time there could be -- there would be no sole on
the bottom, but that material would be stretched down tightly over
this last and turned over and special machines will form and tuck that
excess material around the bottoms and the heel.

And then this would be placed into the respective size -- in the case
with the U.S. size 12 last. They match that specifically when they
design these with the European size 46.

So with a little bit of thickness of the material now on the shoe, it
would be placed into this and would be glued and stitched in the
stitching groove to make the completed shoe.

Q. Would you describe what you've put together.

For purposes of the record, you've taken a 46 sole which is part of
399 and you've put it together with the 46 or size 12 American last?

A. That's correct.

Now, in order -- once this is done --

MR. BAKER: There's no question.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Yes, sir. Once that's put together, the -- the --
the last and the sole, what occurs?

A. Well, the last must be removed from the shoe which is now tightly
around it. And there's a special device for unlinking that last and
then removing it from the shoe, which is what it would look like here.

Q. When you say it would look like here, the other part of 401, you're
showing how that bends down and releases from the shoe?

A. Well, the last actually separates into two parts.

MR. MEDVENE: Would you put on the board, please, or put up another
board, 408. We're going to put Exhibit 408 on the board. It's called
"Shoe Print at Bundy."

(The instrument herein described was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 408.)

MR. MEDVENE: With the court's permission, we're not going to use the
TV monitor, and put up one other chart here that will -- which I think
will better explain the other chart. If I have your permission.

THE COURT: All right.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

(Chart entitled "Shoe Print at Bundy June 13, 1994" is placed in front
of TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Are the -- well, first, let's go to 408, if you
would, and did you assist in preparing 408?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. Could you go down, if you wouldn't mind, to 408 with a pointer and
describe what 408 is?

A. Okay. May I do it from here?

Q. Sure.

A. Okay. 408 is a diagram of the walkway at Bundy beginning on the
right side as you face it at the front, what is known as the front
gate, and then heading westward -- I believe it's west, to the -- what
is marked the driveway at the end of that. And I believe that distance
is approximately 100 feet although I -- that's an estimate that I
made, not an exact measurement.

To the right are two yellow forms and these represent the victims and
their positioning at the scene, and in between them are two numbers,
Q67 and Q68, which have been discussed before and which are on this
other board on the right-hand column, Q67 and Q68, up there to the
left of those.

Q. The other board, what we marked C41?

A. Yes.

Q. And are we saying that if we have Q67 and Q68, this is -- if we
looked at C41, that's a close-up of Q67 and Q68?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. If we have -- on the second step, this is a close-up of and so
forth?

A. Yes.

Q. So there's an interrelationship between this drawing at least in
part and the actual pictures of the bloody shoe print?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay, keeping going. I'm sorry.

A. Well, as you look from that area I just described, slightly to the
left, we're still at the very far right-hand side of the Bundy walkway
chart, there is then the letter A and B, C, D, E, F and so forth, and
those letters continue through the alphabet as you move to the left.

Each of those letters designates a separated footwear impression which
was submitted to me for examination.

The ones in pink represent left impressions. The ones which had
sufficient detail for me to determine that they were left size 46
impressions, they may be a heel impression, they may be a sole
impression or they may be both, but they can be designated as size 46
left.

The purple impressions are right impressions and in the same manner
they would represent either heel or sole or both and they were
determined by me to be size 46 European sole impressions.

Q. What part did you play, if any, in placing the letters or numbers
on what's marked 408?

A. Okay. After receiving the photographs and doing the examinations
and being familiar with those impressions, I was asked to go to the
Bundy scene and to reconstruct on which tiles each of those were.

This was a very simple task to do because each specific impression was
on a tile that had a lot of detail to it, a lot of imperfections and
splotches in different marks. It was very easy to determine where
these had come from, particularly since they were labeled A, B, C, D
in order from the very beginning.

Q. Now, you've told us that the pink on the board are identifiable
left; the purple identifiable right.

I notice there's some oval blue. What is that -- does that represent?

A. The blue represents photographed footwear impressions or photograph
marks in blood that could not be specifically distinguished. In other
words, there was insufficient detail in those impressions to determine
that they were a Bruno Magli impression or that they were a size --
specific size impression.

Q. Now, you had taken us through a moment ago the comparison you did
to demonstrate to the jury the basis for your opinion that Q67, I
think E, were size 12 American size Bruno Magli shoes.

You've now given an opinion about a number of other left and right
shoe prints?

A. Yes.

Q. And I ask you did you make the same type of comparison with respect
to the other bloody impressions on the walkway pictures as you
previously described when you told us about Q68 and E?

A. Yes. In the same type of comparison, examining the original soles
and all of the sizes and examining the test impressions made of size
42 through 47, I was able to determine that the ones in pink and
purple designated on that board were specifically European size 46
Bruno Magli design shoes.

Q. I have placed before you what I'll represent to you are Exhibits
412A through O, 413, 414, 415, 411, 410 and 416, that basically each
separately deal with footprints A through J, L, M, N, O, S, X, Y, Q68
and 116. In other words, a significant part of the various footprints
on Exhibit 40.

A. Yes.

Q. Could you just take one of those and tell us if you went through
the same exercise on each of those as you've described to the jury
when you talked about Q68 and E in showing us how you determined that
they were size 12 U.S. size?

A. Yes. For instance, this one in my hand which I'm showing to the
jury is marked A, and it represents the same impression marked A on
the Bundy board, to the right of the board. It is an impression of a
sole.

In it are two rulers. It's a black-and-white photograph which was
taken on June 13 and it has been enlarged so that one inch on the
ruler equals one inch. It's the actual size that the tile and the
footprint would have been at the scene.

Attached to it is a transparent overlay of a test impression of part
of the size 46 left shoe or left shoe sole.

In the same type of comparison, using the variations in the pattern
and the physical size, I was able to determine that this impression,
like the others and like all of these others that you just read in the
-- in the -- in the record, were made by either the left or right
European 46 shoe.

Q. U.S. 12?

A. U.S. 12.

Q. Bruno Magli shoe?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. You've told us a few moments ago about the blue ovals that as you
go down the walkway start to get these blue ovals that you say you
weren't able to identify sufficiently.

Could you explain to us why, why that is, why particularly at the
beginning of walkway are there enough design elements, and then later,
as you get on the walkway, you're not able to?

A. Okay. As -- as a person walks or tracks through blood, particularly
a large quantity of blood such as was the case at the gate area of
that scene where the two victims were, a considerable amount of that
blood will be covering the surface of the shoe, whatever it comes in
contact with.

And the shoe has raised areas and it has grooves in it, and the raised
areas are the areas that when you walk actually make contact with the
surface. So as this design or pattern and -- with all the different
sizes and shapes on it makes contact with the sidewalk, with the very
first step it's going to leave a relatively dark impression because
there is a larger quantity of blood on it at that time.

As that shoe presses against the walk, it's going to press a lot of
that blood into the pavement in the form of an impression, and any
excess blood will be squeezed to the sides under the pressure and will
either fill the grooves or around the edges of that design element.

With the next step, there will be less blood on the shoe, and a
similar type of physical reaction will take place but there will be a
slightly lighter footwear impression and so on with each subsequent
step so that you will start to get at a point where there is no longer
sufficient detail left on the walkway to recognize what it was in
terms of the pattern or size features, even though you may still see
traces of blood on the walkway.

In this case, most of the discernible footwear impressions were to the
right close to the blood area and there's an area in the middle where
they're kind of mixed up. Some of them you could see in enough detail
and some of them you couldn't.

And then as you get to the left or further down the walkway, most of
them are blue, and although you can see that there are steps and blood
impressions on the walkway, you cannot discern their physical
features.

There's one exception which is at the very end, and I believe it's
marked Q116F.

MR. MEDVENE: (Indicates.)

A. Yes. That was an area where, after going down two steps, you could
see two parallel lines up in this area and a little blood at the tip,
and you could discern that it was a right shoe, and the curvature of
those lines match the 46 sole.

This may have been a situation where the blood was around the edges of
this design, and after jumping down the step, two-step or angling the
foot, there was just a little bit of that excess blood further
squeezed out, but in normal walking the distance between there, all
the way -- midway back in the walkway, there are no longer any bloody
impressions.

Q. Did you prepare a chart that demonstrates this fact that the blood
gets lighter?

A. Yes.

MR. MEDVENE: Would you be kind enough to put up Exhibit 407.

(The instrument herein described as Footwear impressions after
stepping in liquid was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 407.)

MR. BAKER: I object to that. That's argument and cumulative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Could you describe what this chart depicts?

A. This chart depicts on the top what occurs when a person walks
through a liquid such as water, grease or blood.

And you can see at first to the left, after coming out of the liquid
area, the impressions are very heavy, and with each subsequent step
they get lighter and lighter. Eventually, if I were to extend that
chart, you would no longer see any evidence of those footwear
impressions.

On the bottom are three impressions I made wearing Exhibit 395, the
Bruno Magli shoe, the right shoe, and those were made with latex paint
where I actually stood in a tray of latex paint, took a step out of
the tray onto a piece of paper.

And the one in the middle is the second step and the one to the right
is the third step.

So it shows that there's considerably more liquid material on the
first as you look at it to your left, a lot less on the second, and by
the time you get to the third, most of the dark areas are actually the
edges around the design elements because that's where the liquid has
been squeezed to. There could also be some up in the grooves of the
shoe that are not at all at that point making contact with the flat
surface.

Q. Did you have occasion to examine certain carpet from Mr. Simpson's
Bronco?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And approximately when was that?

A. That was on September 1, 1994.

Q. And where?

A. At the LAPD laboratory.

MR. MEDVENE: Would you be good enough to put up 419, please.

(The instrument herein described as Chart entitled Bronco carpet LAPD
No. 33 was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 419.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) What did you -- could you tell us what you did to
the carpet, if anything?

A. Okay. I examined the carpet and -- I was requested to examine the
carpet for any possible footwear impressions and to chemically enhance
any blood impressions that I saw on that carpet.

And I did that on September 1 at the LAPD laboratory, first with
Luminol and secondly with leucocrystal violet which turns the blood
sort of a dark purplish color.

Q. And did you then cause certain photographs to be made?

A. I made photographs of the carpeting before it was enhanced and
through each stage of it and at the end of the enhancement.

Q. Could you tell us what Exhibit 419 is?

A. 419 contains three photographs. The top right is just a general
shot of a white Ford Bronco. The two larger photographs depict the
carpeting from the driver side of the Bronco which was cut out prior
to my examining it. The left photograph is a smaller than natural
size. In other words, the ruler is smaller than it actually would be
in real life, but it depicts the entire piece of carpeting that I
examined after it was enhanced. And to the right is a natural size of
a portion of that carpeting showing the life size representation of
the enhanced blood marks on there.

Q. Would you mind coming -- going up to the chart and orienting the
jury by moving the pictures, if appropriate, to depict where the
carpet would be found in the vehicle and where the blood was found.

MR. P. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this. May we
approach, quickly?

THE COURT: You may.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)

MR. P. BAKER: You ready?

THE COURT: Um-hum.

THE REPORTER: Um-hum.

MR. P. BAKER: Mr. Bodziak testified at the criminal trial that he
couldn't say whether or not there was a sole impression in that Bronco
carpet. I think it's highly prejudicial for him to get up on the stand
and to imply that there is a shoe print on that carpet when he can't
do it.

THE COURT: You can impeach him.

MR. P. BAKER: I'm being denied?

THE COURT: Yeah.

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury:)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Would you be good enough to walk up to the chart
and orient the jury if it's appropriate by moving the picture to
depict where the carpet was found in the vehicle and where the blood
was found?

And you're approaching it with the size 46 sole?

A. Yes, I'll move that -- use that in a moment.

Q. Okay.

A. The carpet -- this piece of carpet is the driver's side carpet.
This would be the driver's side of the vehicle, so when you open the
door, the edge would be along this side. So if I can turn this chart
now on the edge, okay, and this area, this would be the edge along the
door, so that the door would be opening in this manner. And stepping
into the vehicle, whether it be with your left foot or right foot, and
this vehicle of course, being somewhat higher than a passenger
vehicle, the foot would go somewhere in this area. There would be the
metal strip that once covered the carpeting right here, the threshhold
plate as you open the door, and the portion here which you can see
here is the curve portion that contours up behind the pedals. And to
the right of it, up at the top would be where it goes over the console
in the middle. That's why it's cut that way, because it was over a
contoured area. So this area here would be where the first foot strike
normally would be for most people in the vehicle.

Q. Can you describe -- when you say the area right here --

A. It's --

Q. -- what's on the picture where the first foot strike would be?

A. It's --

MR. P. BAKER: Your Honor, I object, there's no foundation that he can
testify as an expert.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. It's an area --

JUROR: Excuse me. We can't see back here. Can you move it this way.

(Counsel witness adjusts exhibit.)

A. It's an area that would be at the front door side corner of the
rubber mat which is part of the carpet. And it's a purplish area which
has resulted from the leucocrystal violet reaction of the blood.

There are also numerous other areas, drops of that same reaction, but
this is the area here which I examined as a potential footwear
pattern.

Q. You're circling the area at the bottom the way I've placed it where
you say that there was -- blood was enhanced so we can now see it?

A. Yes.

In making a comparison --

MR. P. BAKER: There's no question.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) You were talking about the comparison that you
made.

A. In making the comparison, I attempted to make a comparison such as
I did before with the soles and the test impressions which
predominantly are the raised areas of the shoe, and show the
recognizable design elements, and the border, and those features which
I have previously testified to.

In this particular case, those were not evident in this stained area.
But there were some features such as this area right here, and a
couple parallel lines here, and what I call a squiggle or kind of a
step up line which could represent the groove area between the design
elements. That was the extent of what I was us able to observe.

MR. P. BAKER: I move to strike, speculation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

(BY MR. MEDVENE) If there is no impression that you're able to see
from the raised areas of the sole, does that mean there's no more
blood from the sole of the shoe?

A. No, it doesn't mean there's no more blood on the sole of the shoe.
There could be blood up in the depressed areas and clinging to the
edge of this perimeter, up in the cracks and so forth, but not that
would normally make contact on a hard surface and leave an impression.
Nevertheless, there could be some remaining areas which have blood,
which is protected by those recessed areas.

Q. And in your experience, over all the years you've been doing this
examination, would that -- might that blood if it is in the crevices
of the design element, what affect would stepping down on the carpet
have on the release of the blood?

MR. P. BAKER: Speculation, "might that."

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. You've explained to us how blood, while not on the design elements,
might be in the crevices.

What affect, in your opinion, would it have if one stepped down on a
plush carpet such as in Mr. Simpson's Bronco, and there was blood in
the crevices of the design area?

MR. P. BAKER: Leading.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. If there was any remaining blood that was up in the grooves, then
on this particular carpet which was very thick and spongy, in other
words, the nap of the carpet was sufficiently thick that just a normal
stepping on this carpet, that material of the carpet would go up in
these grooves, there certainly would be the potential of it removing
the blood now from those recessed areas and transferring it to the
carpet and resulting in these marks here.

Q. I'm going to approach and give you an overlay of a left 46 Bruno
Magli and ask if you could apply that overlay to the blood area on the
Bronco and tell us what, if anything, that demonstrates?

MR. P. BAKER: Objection, Judge, 352. He can't identify it.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Okay. May I step on the other side?

Q. Yes.

A. See it a little bit better.

The first area that I pointed to was this area here which is a strip
of dark area which is reacted with the blood and slightly curved. The
two borders that print out in the shoe impressions representing the
outer perimeter of the sole and the border which surrounds the design
element can be placed over that area, and the width of this mark is
the same size as that border.

Q. Can I hold you up?

Can you make a mark on the exhibit and just back up for a minute.

I apologize.

And is circle where you first described it?

(Witness complies.)

Q. Where is that that you're circling if you can take me back for a
minute.

A. This is an area which has the same width as the area between the
two borders of the shoe.

Q. Okay. Would you put a 1 next to it.

(Witness complies.)

Q. Please continue.

A. There are also two lines right here which are parallel lines, which
is also if there is a lesser amount of blood the way that the inner
and outer border of this shoe has printed, and those are two other
areas that I noticed.

Q. Can you circle that.

(Witness complies.)

Q. Put a 2 next to that if you would.

(Witness complies.)

Q. Did that cover both theories?

A. There's one more.

Q. Would you cover that for us?

A. The other area was what I described as the shape of the area
between rows of design elements, which is sort of a step down effect
or a squiggle effect. It would represent the shape of the grooves
between the design elements. And that area is right here.

Q. You say right there. Would you circle it and put a 3 next to it,
sir.

(Witness complies.)

Q. Does that cover the observations you made?

A. Yes.

Q. Of all the impressions that you examined in the photos of the Bundy
crime scene taken June 13, that's including the walkway, the closeup
of the tiles, the clothing, individual papers or other things that
were photographed, did you see any shoe design other than the Bruno
Magli size 12 shoe design that you have previously described to us?

A. No, I did not.

Q. Did you have an opportunity to compare a pair of shoes that
belonged to Mr. Simpson and the Bruno Magli size 12?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. I place before you what's been marked 404, and represent that as a
matter of record these are a pair of Reebok shoes, belonging to Mr.
Simpson, that he gave to Detective Lange.

(The instrument herein described as Mr. Simpson's Reebok shoes was
marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 404.)

Q. And I ask you if you compared those shoes with the size 12 Bruno
Magli that's contained in Exhibit 395?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And how did you compare that?

A. Do you have 395?

Q. Yes, sir.

A. Oh, sorry, here it is.

Q. That's okay.

A. Yes. I compared the Reebok shoes, left and right Reebok shoes, with
the Exhibit 395 Bruno Magli. The Bruno Magli, as I have described, or
will describe, these soles are compression molded, they're known as a
cup sole, they're sort of like a cup, if you poured water into them,
and they're attached to the bottom of the shoe by literally placing
the lasted shoe, the completed upper to them, and through glue and
stitching they're applied.

The Reebok is a similar construction. It's also a cup sole. It's known
as a half cup sole because the toe area -- the middle which is just
flat, but the toe area and heel area are cupped. They have variations
of this known as cup half cup, three-quarter cup, so forth. So the
general construction is compression molded cup sole construction. So
even though the Reebok is an athletic sole, its manner of manufacture
makes it a comparable shoe to compare with the Bruno Magli.

And I made a comparison of the external sole dimensions -- linear
dimensions, and the internal measurement of the shoes, and found that
they were virtually identical; that the Bruno Magli shoe and the
Reeboks, if you place them one over another, you can line up their
soles from heel to toe, left to right, and they fit as well as you
could possibly expect.

Q. You're saying Mr. Simpson's shoe was identical to the size 12 Bruno
Magli?

A. It's the same size internally. It reads a size 12, U.S. size 12, as
well as the European 46, size 12 Bruno Magli, and it's physical
dimensions and characteristics for comparability are the same, yes.

Q. I have one last area to deal with.

THE COURT: Well, if you were hoping to finish today that's possibly
not going to happen.

Okay. Ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE CLERK: For the record, I'd like to note that these exhibits that
are being moved in are by reference, and their numbers are 401, 412A
through O, 413, 414, 415, 411, 410, 416 and 404.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 401.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412A.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412B.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412C.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412D.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412E.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412F.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412G.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412H.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412I.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412J.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412K.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412L.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412M.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412N.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 412O.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 413.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 414.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 415.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 411.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 410.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 416.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 404.)

THE COURT: You may resume.

MR. MEDVENE: Place 2062.

(The instrument herein described as Board of photos of various shoes
was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2062.)

Q. Going to place on the rack there what's been marked 2062.

(Displays photos of shoes.)

Q. Is that prepared under your direction?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. Could you approach the board and tell us what that is?

MR. BAKER: I just got that whole board in the mail.

(Laughter)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Since Mr. Baker didn't bring his mail in let's use
this board here. Let's quickly go through it.

A. The top left-hand corner of the chart is a picture of the Bruno
Magli catalog depicting the Lorenzo style of shoe, and also provides
information about the Lyon as well, and it shows a profile of the
Lorenzo, which is the high bootie top, the Lyon which is the standard
cut around the heel. It gives the 6 style numbers for both the Lorenzo
and an additional 6 for the Lyon, with a different style number for
each color that I previously mentioned, the brown, black, white,
olive, brandy and blue.

And so that -- the Lorenzo is represented in this particular picture.
And that shoe was distributed, as I previously stated, through 40
stores in the U.S. and Puerto Rico.

In particular, Lorenzo and Lyon styles in size 12, only 299 were ever
sold at those 40 stores from 1991 to '93, so it was a very limited
production shoe in this country.

The design of the shoe -- some of the items of which I may have
overlapped with prior testimony, the upper has various cut components
which are stitched together. Those stitches represent seams; sometimes
they have an accordian-like design under the seam, and other times
they are just straight seams. And there are other various
characteristics of the upper such as the laces, the color, the texture
of things that can be observed, and the sole itself has a profile to
it in terms of the high and low spots that cause different contours
that are observable around the sole. The cut corner, not inner side of
the heel. The raised heel itself, the design on the bottom and so
forth.

So this shoe has very distinctive features both in the upper and in
the sole which make it distinct and recognizable as that design.

This chart represents a whole variety of designs of shoes. Starting
with this picture of the New Balance athletic shoe representing
athletic shoes.

Athletic shoes typically are lighter color materials, mixtures of
colors and materials, they have logos on them, they have a lot of
different things, features in them, such as heel counter devices and
different gimmicks and things to cause support, and so forth, and
typically your athletic shoe does not look anything like this Lorenzo
shoe.

Likewise, if you look at the boots, whether that's this type of boot,
which is kind of a semi-high work boot which has a totally different
shape construction and look to it, obviously the components in the
stitch seams and the sole are different.

Or even a cowboy boot, which is not pictured here, which is distinctly
different looking. Or if you look at dress shoes, whether they have
tassels or whether they have buckles or laces. Patterns across the top
toe, all of these shoes represented throughout this board, they all
have distinctly different seams, colors, textures, laces, buckles,
tassels, different types of soles which make them easily
distinguishable from this particular design of shoe, the Lorenzo Bruno
Magli shoe.

Q. What I want to move to now then is what's marked as 2211, the
picture of Mr. Simpson. And previously there was discussion of a
photograph taken by Mr. Scull, that he testified was taken of Mr.
Simpson on September 26, '93, prior to a Buffalo/Miami football game.

Using what you just explained to us and what you've explained to us
today, I want to deal with that chart now, and whether or not you have
an opinion as to whether Mr. Simpson, in that photo, is wearing a
Bruno Magli shoe.

Was this chart, that's 2211, prepared under your direction?

A. Yes, it was.

Q. And could you please go there to it and describe the photo.

(The instrument herein described as photos of Mr. Simpson walking and
a closeup of his shoes was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit 2211.)

MR. MEDVENE: Can the jury -- can you see it?

JUROR: Thank you.

A. If I may start to answer your question, the chart has numerous
photographs on it that are numbered 1 through 8. It may be easier if I
start with number 2.

2 is an enlarged contact sheet. And a contact sheet is in this fashion
was made by placing the negative strip which consisted of negative
number 1, and number 2 --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to how this contact sheet was made. He
has no firsthand knowledge of this.

THE COURT: You may stipulate the explanation on contact, we've already
heard the testimony of contact prints from another witness.

Q. Can you tell us, did you cause the contact sheet that appears on
the board to be made?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And --

MR. BAKER: Wait.

Q. How did you do that?

MR. BAKER: Wait a minute. Your Honor --

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me. There's another counsel examining this
witness.

THE COURT: Objection --

MR. BAKER: Then I'll examine him.

THE COURT: Objection, overruled. Overruled.

Let's get on with this.

A. This was made with my supervision in the FBI laboratory.

Q. Could you take me or could you point to the particular photographs
on the board that you used as a basis for your opinion whether or not
Mr. Simpson in photo number 1 is wearing a pair of Bruno Magli shoes?

A. Yes, photograph number 1 is an enlargement of the content of
negative 1 as depicted in Item number 2.

Item number 3 is a slightly larger area of the legs and shoes taken
from the same negative of Mr. Simpson negative number 1.

Item number 6 and Item number 4 are 8 by 10 photographs of the right
and left shoes of Mr. Simpson from the same negative, but they are
printed so that the darker shoes and pants show up better. In other
words, they are printed with a different exposure so that these dark
areas now show up light and allow for us to examine the seams, and
sole design, and other features in the shoes, whereas in the print
that's made for the overall exposure, they appear in dark.

Number 7 is a photograph taken in the studio, under my direction, of
Exhibit 395, the right Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe, and the approximate
position of the right shoe as depicted on the right leg of Mr. Simpson
in negative number 1.

Item number 5 on this chart is a computer print taken directly of
negative number 1 of the lower area or bottom area, beneath the toe of
the right shoe.

Again, identical. And taken from negative number 1.

And to the right, Item number 8 is a left and right profile, just for
reference purposes of Exhibit 395, the Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe.

In examination, I made or caused to be made these prints for the
purpose of comparing the detail on the shoes in this photograph with
the known standard, the 395 Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe.

I observed numerous features during the comparison and I have numbered
them specifically on Items 4, 5 and 7.

We'll begin with numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 through 11, which point to
features on the sole of this shoe which I observed.

Looking at number 7, which is the 395 shoe, number 1, 2 and 3 refer to
the raised area above the -- stitching above that runs around that
shoe. Number 2 is actually the stitching area, the depressed area, and
then below that is another raised area so that number 1 and number 3
are actually the raised areas and number 2 is the depressed area where
the stitching is in this shoe.

Number 4 is the area below that which is a broader area, which again
runs around the perimeter of the shoe.

Number 5 is the next area below that, which is also a broad area and
which continues around beneath the shoe until it meets that border,
which encompasses the design elements underneath.

Number 6 is that border -- that border, that very thin line that runs
around the design element.

Looking at those characteristics up to 1 through 6, and looking at the
photograph of Mr. Simpson at the Buffalo football game, and the
picture, which is number 4 -- Item Nos. 1 through 6 are visible and
correspond with the features in the Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe.

Next, looking at Item number 7, there are features of the shoe, the
design elements, which are visible in that photograph. Those design
elements are also visible and are pointed to by number 7 in the
photograph of Mr. Simpson's right shoe at the Buffalo football game.

To further enlarge and enhance that specific area, Item number 5 is a
computer print. And that computer print is made utilizing the computer
and printing emphasizing the red highlights of that, because the foot
is over the red area of the field.

And this shows in a slightly better fashion the design elements and
those correspond with the design element positions and the general
pattern of that on the right Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe.

Continuing on, number 8 is the curve which is in the arch area of this
sole. It's this curve right here, and it can be seen at this
three-quarter shot of the sole marked by number, and also in the
photograph of the Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe taken at the football game
of Mr. Simpson.

Number 9 refers to the cut corner. And the cut corner, because it's
cut off from the side, shows up as an angle. And this is visible and
is referred to as number 9 in the photograph, under number 7 here, of
the actual 395 shoe, and also by number 9 in the photograph of that
shoe at the Buffalo football game.

Number 10 refers to the curvature, the meeting of the bottom area and
the contoured area, and the angle of that area when you look at the
heel area of the Bruno Magli shoe, and that same contour and
combination can be seen in number 10.

Number 11 refers to the manner in which this sole raises up in the
heel area. In this area, as it goes up, it's a little bit thicker, and
at the angle that shoe is photographed, this thickness can be
detected, and this is pointed to by number 11, and it's also visible
at number 11 in the photograph of the shoe at the Buffalo football
game.

Item number 12 through 18 refer to the seam positions and their
directions in the upper of the shoe again.

Item number 7 depicting the actual Exhibit 395, Bruno Magli Lorenzo
shoe.

Number 12, referring to a seam in the back, in front of the heel. This
would be this area here.

And number 12 pointing to that same seam in the photograph in the
football game.

(Indicating to shoe.)

Number 13, referring to the seam which runs up alongside of the laces.

Number 14, referring to that same seam after it turns downward toward
the ground.

Number 15, referring to the bottom of that seam so that would be 13
here, 14, and then 15, showing different directions of those seams and
those same features evident on the photograph of the right shoe on Mr.
Simpson at the Buffalo football game.

(Indicating to photos.)

Number 16 is the seam which runs around the toe area, between this
portion of the toe and the vamp or upper area of the toe, and this is
also depicted in the photograph designated as 16 of Mr. Simpson's
right foot at the Buffalo football game.

Number 17 is this seam here below the laces. It's pointed out to as
number 17 here, and also is pointed out to as number 17 in the right
shoe of Mr. Simpson at this Buffalo football game.

Finally, 18 refers to one of the eyelet holes, the bottom eyelet on
the left side of the right shoe, and number 18 refers to that same
reference point.

I might also mention that the shoe laces are evident in the photograph
of this shoe at the football game in the same manner as they are on
the 395, Bruno Magli shoe.

Based on those combined characteristics, all of these features of a
sole, a Bruno Magli sole, which has a great deal of features to it,
all of the different contours, the angled heel, the raised area in the
back, very sculptured, raised heel, shoe made in the unit
configuration with the various seam and part configuration of the
upper, in a dull finish, with laces.

Based on all of these features combined, I was able to determine that
the shoe depicted in this photograph on the right foot of Mr. Simpson
is a Bruno Magli Lorenzo right shoe, identical to Exhibit 395.

In addition, I examined the left shoe which also, in a similar
examination, I was able to determine that the left shoe features which
are visible in section number 6 of this chart corresponded with a left
shoe of this design.

Q. Incidentally, prior to your analysis of the pictures printed of Mr.
Scull's negatives, were the negatives, to your knowledge, examined for
authentication by a photographic examiner?

MR. P. BAKER: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes, I'm aware that they were examined for authentication.

Q. Was that examiner, to your knowledge, formerly the head of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation Photographic Unit that's among it's
duties was the examination of negatives for authentication?

MR. P. BAKER: Objection. Can we approach on this?

THE COURT: Okay.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench with reporter:)

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. P. BAKER: This is all prejudicial. It's hearsay and it's
irrelevant. If they want to bring in the guy who examined the photo,
then they can bring him in. They can't put it through the back door
through Bodziak is what I'm trying to say. He examined and he had all
these qualifications. If he examined it, if he found it authentic,
they have to bring him in.

MR. MEDVENE: Well, I think one expert can rely on another expert's
opinion in a particular area, Your Honor, and all he's testifying to
now is that the man that examined the negative for authenticity just
when he formerly worked. It's my last question, incidentally.

MR. BAKER: This doesn't --

THE COURT: I don't care if it's your first or last. What's the theory
on which --

MR. MEDVENE: The theory is they're going to cross-examine him in this
particular and he's entitled, we believe, as an expert, to say that
this negative -- all we're saying is that that negative, prior to his
examination, was sent to a separate expert to examine.

THE COURT: So where's the expert?

MR. MEDVENE: The other side -- the other side has taken the position,
and if the Simpson side puts on evidence -- there's no evidence now
that the picture's other than authentic. If they put on any evidence
in their case, we can rebut -- well, there's nothing for him to
testify at this time about.

MR. P. BAKER: Judge, they know we already have an expert who says
there's 16 inconsistencies with that photograph. If they want to bring
in their guy, they can bring him in. Now, Mr. Bodziak, at his
deposition, testified that he wouldn't tell this jury --

THE COURT: I know. I'm satisfied.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

THE COURT: They can't rely on another expert opinion.

MR. MEDVENE: I'll withdraw the last question.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. P. BAKER: I move to strike.

THE COURT: It's stricken.

MR. P. BAKER: Thanks, Judge.

MR. MEDVENE: We just ask to strike what.

MR. P. BAKER: The question and the answer -- the question --

THE COURT: The question and was it submitted to another expert for
authentication, and yes, that may remain. Whether it's authentic or
not, that's stricken.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. MEDVENE: I'll withdraw the last question.

We have nothing further.

THE COURT: Ladies and gentlemen, the status of this event here is that
the court has allowed the question, was the photograph -- photographs
submitted to someone for authentication, answer, yes.

The rest of it is stricken.

Okay. Are you going to be a speed talker?

MR. P. BAKER: I don't think I can do it in five minutes.

THE COURT: I don't like to here that.

MR. P. BAKER: I know.

THE COURT: We'll adjourn then, ladies and gentlemen, till tomorrow at
8:30. Don't talk about the case, don't form or express any opinion.

(At 4:25 P.M. an adjournment was taken until Thursday, November 21,
1996 at 8:30 A.M.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-7</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B008-134</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov21.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054012 text/html 87172
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:49:48 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 20:24:11 GMT
Content-length: 86980
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/21/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 21, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1996
9:00 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ HON.
HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

MR. BAKER: As the Court is aware, Mr. Simpson, my client, has been in
Orange County for the custody hearing for his children.

As you can imagine, that's been relatively traumatic.

The plaintiffs have taken off three or four days during the month of
trial. I ask -- request of this Court that we be dark on Friday and
let Mr. Simpson put his head on straight before these lawyers start
attacking him on cross-examination. I would request that we go over
till Monday, and that he be the first witness on the stand on Monday
morning. They can have at him Monday and Tuesday.

THE COURT: Well, I appreciate his dilemma. However, the Court did have
to go out of its way to arrange for his availability and the
adjournment of the other proceedings, so the motion is denied.

MR. BAKER: Then, Your Honor, I would like to start him at 1:30 this
afternoon. If they won't give me any break on this, let's start him at
1:30 this afternoon. I'll call down to Orange County. Let's get Mr.
Simpson on the stand.

These guys can't give me the same cooperation I've given them, and
given this Court's ruling, then let's head -- let's go and let's get
this thing over with.

THE COURT: Okay. We'll start tomorrow morning.

MR. BAKER: Thanks for your consideration, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Anything?

MR. PETROCELLI: We just have to complete Mr. Bodziak's examination
this morning.

THE COURT: All right.

Incidentally, you know, this is sort of an aside: This is not my
normal courtroom; this is Judge Light's courtroom. I understand
counsel have been bringing in coffee and on occasion, spilling coffee.
We'll expect counsel to clean up the courtroom for Judge Light when we
complete these proceedings.

All right?

MR. KELLY: Yes, Your Honor.

MR. LEONARD: You're looking at me for good reason. I think I'm the
only one who spilled coffee. I will take care of it, okay?

Yeah, you were looking right at me.

(Pause in proceedings.)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Morning.

MR. MEDVENE: If the Court please, we'd ask -- we want to move in
certain exhibits, and we'd ask permission with respect to chart 2211,
there's a magnified portion, and I had neglected yesterday -- I wanted
to ask permission of the Court to have the jury examine the magnified
portion, which is the detailed point that Mr. Bodziak pointed out,
where he was able to identify the shoe Mr. Simpson is wearing as
identical to the size 12 Bruno Magli shoe.

And since the numbers are very small, I want to ask permission of the
Court --

Could you pull that off, please.

We wanted to be able to show that to the jury, Your Honor, and have
the witness show it to the jury.

MR. MEDVENE: Because the numbers are so small --

(Mr. Foster displays exhibit to the Court.)

THE COURT: Well, they're going to have all the exhibits at the end of
the case. I don't see any point in delaying the matter at this time.

MR. MEDVENE: All right, Your Honor. Thank you.

MR. MEDVENE: We have no further questions.

We would move in, Your Honor, 41, 2206, 2207, 2208, and 2209, which --
they're all pictures that were on the shoe prints on the Bundy board.

395, the Bruno Magli shoes.

394, the picture of them.

399, the outsoles.

402, the reverse photograph of the soles.

403, the shoe print comparison.

2210, the comparison of the European size 46 with the U.S. size 12.

401, the lasts, the size 12 Bruno Magli lasts.

408, the walkway.

412-A through F, and L through O, as well as 413, 414, 415, 411, 410,
and 416, which are overlays of the various bloody shoe prints at
Bundy.

407 and 419, the Bronco carpet.

2062 and 2211, which is the board that's up there now and the pictures
on it, which are 1917, which is photo 1; 1929, which is photo 2; 1931,
which is photo 3; 1932, which is photo 4; 1934, which is photo 5;
1932, which is photo 6.

THE CLERK: Um.

MR. MEDVENE: 1437 (sic).

THE CLERK: The one before that, 1930?

MR. MEDVENE: 1932.

THE CLERK: I think you said 1932, 1934, and 1932 again.

MR. MEDVENE: Yes, we did. On the two eight-by-tens.

THE CLERK: Same photo.

MR. MEDVENE: Different photo. And we'll give you that number.

THE CLERK: All right; I need it.

1937 is photo number 7; on photo number 8, 1940, and 1939 is a --

MR. P. BAKER: I'd like to reserve, certainly, on photo number 8.

MR. MEDVENE: Both those photos are on 1932. And Reeboks, Exhibit 1944
(sic).

Thank you, Your Honor.

THE COURT: They're all received.

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 41 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2206 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2207 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2208 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2209 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 395 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 394 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 399 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 402 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 403 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2210 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 401 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 404 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 408 was
received in evidence.)

(The instruments previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 412 A-F were
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instruments previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 412 L-O were
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 413 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 414 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 415 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked Plaintiffs' Exhibit 411 was received
in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 410 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 416 was
received in evidence by reference to Case No. BA097211.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 407 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 419 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2062 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2211 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1917 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1929 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1932 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1934 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1937 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1940 was
received in evidence.)

(The instrument previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1939 was
received in evidence.)

THE COURT: Any subsequent motions?

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Will you state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: William J. Bodziak.

WILLIAM J. BODZIAK, the witness on the stand at the time of the
adjournment on Wednesday, November 21, 1996, having been previously
duly sworn, was examined and testified further as follows:

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. P. BAKER:

Q. Good morning, Mr. Bodziak.

A. Good morning.

Q. How are you?

A. Fine.

Q. When did you come down to LA, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Monday afternoon.

Q. How long did you spend with Mr. Medvene this week?

A. Approximately the balance of Monday after I get in, from like three
or four o'clock, to maybe eight o'clock at night, and a larger portion
of the day on Tuesday.

Q. Which means seven hours, eight hours?

A. Eight to ten hours, yeah.

Q. Spend any time preparing to testify with him on Wednesday?

A. Before I testified yesterday morning?

Q. Yes.

A. Maybe one or two questions in the morning, something like that,
before walking over.

Q. Okay.

And I had the good fortune of meeting you on Tuesday, when Mr. Medvene
brought you by to kind of give you a tour of this courtroom, didn't
he?

A. No. We came over to check some pieces of evidence. And while we
were here, we stuck our heads in from outside the hallway.

Q. Did he show you the lectern where he was going to be asking you
some questions?

A. No, he did not.

Q. Did he go over with you the questions he was going to ask you by
the time you took that chair to testify?

A. We reviewed the matters that I would be testifying on, yes.

Q. He told you the questions he was going to ask you, didn't he?

A. I didn't know the specific wording; I knew generally what he was
going to ask, yes.

Q. And you told him what your answers would be, didn't you?

A. That's normal to review in a pretrial; yes, sir.

Q. Answer the question.

A. I did.

Q. You told him the answers, didn't you?

A. That's what I stated; yes.

Q. And prior to this week, how much time did you spend with Mr.
Medvene?

A. On a couple occasions, he traveled back to Washington. I think
total, maybe two days.

Q. You spent about a day and a half with him in March?

A. I know he came on two occasions; one was lesser part of a day, one
was a day, plus like another half a day. So I think a total of about
two days.

Q. About two days.

About 16 more hours?

A. Yes.

Q. You also met Mr. Petrocelli in Washington, D.C., didn't you?

A. At the deposition, yes.

Q. How many hours did you spend with Mr. Petrocelli prior to the time
he took your deposition?

A. Five minutes, to get coffee.

Q. Okay.

Any other time you spent preparing to testify, with any
representatives of the plaintiffs' attorneys other than which you've
already testified -- other than we've already talked about?

A. There may have been a couple two-minute phone calls: I'm sending
you something, or something like that, but not -- not what you're
asking, not in terms of going over my testimony from the criminal
trial.

Q. All right.

You spent about 38 hours, I'm told, with the plaintiffs' attorneys
prior to the time you testified; is that right?

A. That's a close estimate, yes.

Q. How many civil cases have you ever testified to -- in?

A. Federal or nonfederal?

Q. Any.

A. I've testified in one nonfederal civil case.

Q. That was about 15 years ago, wasn't it?

A. That was the last time the occasion arose, yes.

Q. Okay.

And who paid you for the 38 hours that you spent conversing with
representatives of the plaintiffs prior to the time you took the
stand?

A. I was just on my regular salary as an FBI agent.

Q. Okay.

So the taxpayers paid you for that time, correct?

A. That's one interpretation, yes.

Q. I paid you?

A. I don't know how many taxes you pay or if you pay any.

Q. Well --

(Laughter.)

A. I'll check into that when I get back.

(Laughter.)

Q. I'm sure you will.

O.J. Simpson paid you?

A. If he pays taxes, you could say that, yes.

Q. You try to remain as neutral as possible, don't you, when you're
going to testify, don't you?

A. That's what's expected of me, yes.

Q. That's an oath you take as an FBI agent?

A. That's correct.

Q. You take an oath to tell the truth, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you were first -- Strike that.

How much time did you prepare with representatives for the prosecution
prior to the time you testified in the criminal case?

A. Well, I've never calculated the hours, but I -- I was in LA prior
to the criminal case on four occasions, including going to the scene,
reviewing photographs, talking with attorneys; and then on the last
occasion, approximately two to two and a half days before my
testimony.

Q. You conversed with representatives of the prosecution for about two
to two and a half days?

A. In the criminal matter?

Q. Right.

A. In the criminal matter, yes.

Q. You -- is there any other case where you have spent as much time as
you have in the case involving O.J. Simpson?

A. Working the case or in talking to -- to attorneys?

Q. Talking to attorneys.

A. Probably some that come close, but this is probably the most
because of the two trials; yes.

Q. You were first contacted by the prosecution in about early August
of 1994?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you got to travel to Italy, right?

A. I actually canceled the first trip and rescheduled it later.

I think it was in February.

Q. Okay.

I wasn't really interested in your travel plans.

You traveled to Italy right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You visited two factories there?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you ascertained that the shoe-print impression that appeared at
875 South Bundy was similar to that of the Silga sole on the Bruno
Magli -- Bruno Magli line, correct?

A. It was made by the Silga Sole, what Silga calls a U-2887 sole,
which is a number marked on the back of those rubber soles that were
in the court yesterday.

Q. Okay.

And as I understand it, you ascertained that these type of shoes were
sold in 40 stores throughout the United States, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. How many of these shoes were sold outside the United States?

A. There were some shoes sold in Italy and there was also some that
were shipped to Ireland, and the exact number -- there's no way of
determining what, in terms of the number of soles, that Silga shipped
to those other suppliers. It was a very low number.

Probably in all total, based on the figures I got, 120,000 --

Q. Okay.

A. -- in all sizes.

Q. Now, from what I understand, after you ascertained that this type
of shoe was sold in 40 stores, the LAPD and the FBI conducted an
investigation, did it not?

A. That's correct.

Q. And in that investigation, you are aware they went to
representatives of -- the FBI and the LAPD went to all 40 of these
stores, correct?

A. That was the intent.

I have no personal knowledge of exactly what came out of that request.

Q. You were aware of that, were you not?

A. I initiated the request, but I didn't have any follow-up after
that.

Q. And you are aware, are you not, that not one receipt was ever found
identifying that O.J. Simpson purchased a Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe,
correct?

A. Not to my knowledge, no.

Q. And you're also aware that not one salesperson recalled selling a
Bruno Magli Lorenzo shoe to O.J. Simpson?

A. They weren't specifically asked that; but based on the end result,
that's my impression, that none did.

Q. Well, he's kind of a celebrity, right?

A. They did not ask that question, though, in their leads.

Q. When they asked whether they recalled that they sold O.J. Simpson a
shoe, the salesperson most likely knew who O.J. Simpson was; isn't
that true?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Calls for conclusion.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Now, let's talk about that -- that imprint you
saw on the Bronco.

(Referring to Exhibit 416.)

MR. P. BAKER: This is Exhibit 416.

MR. BAKER: Why don't you put it up to the next notch, Phil.

MR. P. BAKER: Oh, I'm sorry.

MR. BAKER: Straight up.

MR. P. BAKER: Can you see that?

JURORS: (Nod affirmatively.)

THE COURT: Sir --

MR. P. BAKER: Can you see that?

THE COURT: -- I can't see that.

Nobody can see that. It's not that; it's this board.

MR. P. BAKER: All right.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You see it now?

A. Yes.

Q. As I understand, you testified to this jury yesterday, that the
imprint you observed on the Bronco was in a location where a person
would normally first step into a vehicle; is that true?

A. I testified that it was my belief that most persons would step
somewhere in that area with either the left or right foot, yes.

Q. You said first step, didn't you, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. In fact, you said this area here (indicating) would be where the
first foot strike normally would be, for most people, in the vehicle?

A. Normally, that's correct.

Q. Okay.

And you also kind of implied to this jury that that imprint was
similar to a Silga sole, didn't you?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Calls for conclusion. Also vague and
ambiguous.

I'll withdraw it.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You put this overlay on this imprint in front of
this jury of a Silga sole, didn't you?

A. Not the entire imprint.

Q. You put this imprint -- you put this overlay over that imprint,
didn't you, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Over three separate, specific areas, not the entire imprint.

Q. You were trying to imply to this jury that that imprint was a Silga
sole, weren't you?

A. No. I testified I couldn't determine that.

Q. Oh. Okay.

You went a little bit farther than what you testified to in the
criminal case, didn't you?

A. No. I said exactly the same thing that I said in the criminal
trial.

Q. All right.

Let's go to page 32842 of the criminal testimony, lines 12 through 17.
32842.

(Reading:)

"Q. My understanding is, there was insufficient detail present to call
it one way or the other as to those marks, whether they're a footprint
or not, in the Bronco?

"A. I couldn't associate them with the sole to sole, yes."

That was your answer, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you weren't trying to imply to this jury that that was a Silga
sole when you put the overlay over the board?

A. No, I was not.

Q. Now, Mr. Bodziak --

THE REPORTER: Does this have a number?

MR. MEDVENE: No.

MR. FOSTER: The overlay doesn't have a number.

MR. BAKER: Let's give it a number.

MR. P. BAKER: 2212.

(The instrument herein referred to as Overlay of an outsole was marked
for identification as Defendants' Exhibit No. 2212.)

Q. Mr. Bodziak, will you walk down to the board and turn the board as
you did yesterday, in the way that that carpet would have appeared in
the Bronco.

(Witness adjusts board.)

A. Okay.

Q. That's the way you think this floor mat appeared in the Bronco, the
pedals being here?

A. No. The pedals would be along here (indicating).

This would be the door (indicating). This would be the side where the
console was (indicating). This would be to the rear of the car.

Q. So the pedals would be right about here (indicating)?

A. Yes.

Q. And looking to the left side of this exhibit?

A. When it's on its edge, yes.

Q. Okay.

And how far from the end of this rubber mat to the end of the seat,
Mr. Bodziak?

A. Part of the seat was actually over this area (indicating); the seat
came over part of this area?

Q. Part of the seat kind of went over on top of the floor mat?

A. Just a little bit.

Q. How far from the top of that floor mat to the brake pedal, exactly?

A. Well, I have -- there was no need for me to measure it. I can't
answer your question.

Q. Well, Mr. Bodziak, you testified in the criminal case that this
(indicating) is where a person would normally first step, didn't you?

A. This is the entrance, yes.

Q. Okay.

And this is the -- this is the metal side door, right (indicating)?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the door kind of opens somewhere over here to the left
(indicating)?

A. It's kind of behind, would be over here (indicating).

Q. Right over here, right to the left (indicating)?

A. I don't know how far.

Q. Certainly at the edge?

A. But this (indicating) is the carpeting where the metal threshold
plate is when you open the door.

Q. You're sure of that?

A. Yes, I am.

Q. Positive?

A. Absolutely positive.

Q. You testified in the criminal case, where Mr. Simpson faces life in
prison, that's where a person would normally step?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Argumentative. Move to strike. Form of the
question.

THE COURT: I didn't quite hear you.

MR. P. BAKER: I will withdraw it.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) How far was the left portion of this (indicating)
rubber mat to the side rail, Mr. Bodziak?

A. This is a natural size photograph.

It's the exact distance you see here, and the metal rail would have
come slightly over that carpeting.

Q. Okay.

So none of this cutting would run underneath the door panel, right?

A. Possibly enough to hold it down.

Q. Oh, so some of it would?

A. Well, quarter inch or whatever it took.

Q. Okay.

That's not a cut that goes all the way up, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And did you ask the prosecution, before you made that opinion, to look
at the photograph of the floor mat in the Bronco before it was
removed?

A. I have photographs of the floor mat before it -- it was, as it was
taken out, but I can't recall -- I've looked at hundreds of
photographs -- whether one of those had a picture of this area of the
carpet actually in the Bronco. I don't recall.

Q. So as you sit here today, you don't recall seeing a photograph of
the floor mat already in the Bronco, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, there was a hat on that floor mat when it was opened;
isn't that true?

A. A hat?

Q. A hat, kind of an Irish hat?

A. I have no knowledge of a hat.

Q. Never seen that before?

A. No.

Q. You don't know if there was any blood on that hat, do you?

A. That was not my area of examination.

Q. Okay.

I'm going to show you a photograph, Mr. Bodziak --

MR. P. BAKER: I'll have to mark it next in order.

THE CLERK: 2213.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Ford Bronco with
doors open was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
2213.)

MR. P. BAKER: We'll see if Mr. Leonard is better on the focusing.

MR. LEONARD: I don't even know which way is up.

MR. P. BAKER: Maybe not.

MR. BAKER: I wouldn't say that so loud.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have a number for the record?

MR. P. BAKER: 2213.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You ever see this photograph before, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I don't recall seeing it.

Q. You don't recall?

A. I may have seen it. I don't recall.

Q. Earlier, you testified that the chair went over the floor mat?

A. I think when it's moved up, it does.

Q. When the seat is moved up?

A. Yes.

Q. You don't wait a second.

A. I don't.

Q. Let me ask the question.

You don't know if that seat was moved up or not when they opened up
that door, do you?

A. At the time the blood impression was left, or at the time the
police opened the door?

Q. At the time that photograph was taken, Mr. Bodziak.

A. No, I don't.

Q. You're guessing whether or not that seat was moved, aren't you?

A. No, I'm not.

Q. Oh, really?

A. No, I'm not. In regard to where this carpet is, whether the seat
was moved at the time this was taken, no, I don't know.

Q. Okay. You don't know.

And that floor mat goes up underneath the parking brake, doesn't it?

A. That's correct.

Q. It doesn't.

And the door sill kind of ends about the middle of the floor mat,
doesn't it?

A. That's correct.

Q. I thought you told the jury that it ended up here a little bit
earlier.

A. That's the way it was represented to me.

Q. Okay.

So the photograph is different than what you were represented to,
right?

A. Not -- not entirely, but in part, it is. It shifted a little more
than I thought, yes.

Q. By the way, Mr. Bodziak, how much higher is this imprint over that
floor mat, exactly?

A. I don't understand what you mean by "higher."

Q. Inches.

How much higher up on the floor mat is that imprint over the rubber
mat?

A. Well, it -- that actually raises the corner of it, then extends
towards the center of the vehicle.

Q. It goes five inches above the floor mat, doesn't it, from here
(indicating) to the top of the rubber mat?

A. If you say so.

Q. And that imprint is underneath the parking brake, isn't it, Mr.
Bodziak?

A. As it appears in this photograph, it would be further up, yes.

Q. Further up on the underside?

A. That's correct.

Q. That's nowhere a person normally steps into a vehicle, is it?

A. It's possibly not where I would, with my short legs.

Q. Okay.

So when you testified to this jury --

You're not a human-factors expert, are you?

A. Human factors?

Q. You've never heard that term before?

A. No.

Q. You don't have a Ph.D. in human factors?

A. Thank goodness, no.

Q. So you were wrong when you said that that imprint is where a person
normally steps into a vehicle, weren't you?

A. I think they can still put their foot there, but it may not be the
first step.

Q. Well, you said the first step to this jury.

A. That was my impression, based on the way it was represented to me,
yes.

Q. Do you give all your opinions based on other people's
representations, Mr. Bodziak?

A. My opinion is regarding this impression. The other was just to
orientate the jury as to where that carpet was.

Q. Oh, okay.

So you were orienting the jury as to where it was, based on someone
else's representation, right?

A. Well, I think the orientation was pretty clear, except for a couple
inches' difference in where the hat was, yes.

Q. You also put this impression up in front of the jury yesterday,
didn't you?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And --

MR. BAKER: 2212.

MR. P. BAKER: Which one?

MR. BAKER: That's 2212.

MR. P. BAKER: 2212.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Would you put it up again.

A. Which position?

Q. The position you put it up yesterday, where it looks similar to
where the imprints were.

A. Starting with number 1, I drew the -- taken and drew a circle
around it.

MR. BAKER: He asked you to put it up, Mr. Bodziak.

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me.

THE COURT: Mr. Baker, let this Mr. Baker handle the examination.

(Laughter.)

MR. BAKER: That's my boy.

THE COURT: I know it. But he's doing quite well, so let him do it
himself.

THE WITNESS: Number 1 referred to the border around the shoe here
(indicating) and placed the overlay over that position.

MR. P. BAKER: Let's leave it up there. I want to leave it up there.

Okay.

THE WITNESS: That's right where it was.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) If you --

A. It was on that exactly.

Q. Okay. You do it for me.

(Witness places Exhibit 2212 on easel.)

THE COURT REPORTER: Which number on that picture on the board?

MR. P. BAKER: We're referring to the bottom photograph on the board,
correct?

Just for the record, we're looking at the bottom of two photographs?

THE WITNESS: It's actually to the right of the board.

THE COURT: Actually, it's not the bottom.

MR. P. BAKER: Yeah, yeah. I'm losing it.

THE COURT: It's to the bottom right of the chart -- board.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Is that the left foot or the right foot?

A. You gave me the left foot.

Q. That's what you put in front of the jury?

A. I testified it could be left or right.

Q. Well, it could be left or right?

A. That's right.

Q. And instead, it was the first foot strike -- normally would be for
most people -- in the vehicle, right?

A. It would be, for most people, the normal foot strike, yes.

Q. When you open the door, Mr. Bodziak, and get into a car, you either
go like this (indicating) to get in a car; is that how you do it?

A. I have cars; I don't have Broncos, so . . .

Q. Okay.

A. I've never driven one.

Yeah, I don't -- I slide in first because it's a car.

Q. And you put it -- you put your foot underneath the parking brake
first?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Okay.

And you certainly wouldn't do it with your right foot, would you?

A. In this type of vehicle, I don't. I would have to put a foot up
there (indicating) and pull the wheel, and brace myself, and pull
myself up.

In a passenger vehicle, like I normally do, because I don't have this
vehicle, I would slide in, just sit down on the seat, and swing my
feet around.

Q. You don't open the car, put your right foot in, and jump on the
seat, do you?

A. I don't know what I'd do in this vehicle; I've never been in it.

Q. Okay. All right. Good enough.

And you can't tell this jury positively that this imprint is from a
Silga sole, can you?

A. I testified I could not; that's right.

Q. All right.

And you are aware, are you not, that Mr. Yamauchi found no results
when carpet 33 was first tested, aren't you?

A. With regard to the blood?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Calls for hearsay, Your Honor, lack --

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: Outside the scope.

THE COURT: Excuse me. Overruled. Goes to his testimony, expertise
factors that went into it.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) With regard to the carpet, were you aware of
that?

A. I'm not sure if you're asking about blood results or shoe-print
results.

Q. When carpet 33 was first tested by Mr. Yamauchi, you (sic) came up
with no results. Were you aware of that, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Tested for what?

I don't understand your question.

Q. Blood.

A. Well, you haven't said that yet.

Q. Okay. I'm sorry.

MR. PETROCELLI: That misstates the testimony of Mr. Yamauchi.

THE COURT: Who's going to handle this part of testimony on your side?

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm sorry. Mr. Medvene had not -- might not have been
there.

THE COURT: I know he's not your son.

(Laughter.)

MR. BAKER: You've got justification, Dan.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You weren't aware of that, were you, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Could you restate the question entirely.

Q. You weren't aware when Mr. Yamauchi first tested item number 33 for
blood, he came up with no results?

A. I'm not aware of any blood results, no.

Q. Okay.

Now, normally, when you testify, Mr. Bodziak, you're comparing shoe
prints -- normally, when you testify, you're comparing shoe prints
with known shoes of a suspect; isn't that true?

A. In most cases, yes.

Q. And those shoes -- strike that.

When a -- after the crime, you were aware that the LAPD searched the
sewers for shoes that matched the shoe prints at the crime scene; were
you aware of that?

A. I was not aware of that, no.

Q. Were you aware they searched all around Mr. Simpson's residence for
shoes that matched the impressions?

A. I have no personal knowledge what they looked for and whether --

Q. Were you aware of that?

A. No. I said I wasn't.

Q. And you weren't aware that they looked all around at the Chicago
hotel for shoes?

A. I have no personal knowledge of what they did, looking for the
shoes.

Q. Okay.

In fact, when you first came onto this case on September 21, 1994, you
asked Mr. Lange and you asked Mr. Vannatter for the following. You
asked:

In order to provide a more complete and accurate assessment of Mr.
Simpson's shoe size for comparison with the shoe size of impressions
at the crime scene, it would be of value to examine inventory and list
the brand names, types, and sizes of all shoes belonging to Mr.
Simpson, such as those he was wearing at the time of his arrest, and
those which are currently at his residence.

That's what you asked for; is that not true?

A. That's correct.

You're reading a memo I wrote to them.

Q. You wrote that on September 21, 1994?

A. If that's the date on it, yes.

Q. And you never got that, did you?

A. No. I believe they had already served their warrant and they
weren't able to ever search anymore.

Q. You later came to find out that Mr. Simpson had shoes ranging from
10 and a half to 13 in his closet, right?

A. I was never provided any information.

Q. You wouldn't be surprised by that?

A. About what I requested in that --

Q. You wouldn't be surprised that he wore shoes ranging from 10 and a
half to size 13?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Calls for speculation, would he be surprised.

THE COURT: Sustained as whether he would be surprised or not.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You wear a size 8 to 10, don't you, Mr. Bodziak?

A. That's correct.

Q. You were given one pair of shoes, some Reeboks?

A. That's correct.

Q. And those doesn't match the impressions at the crime scene,
correct?

A. No, they did not.

Q. Now, let's talk about the footprints at the crime scene.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 408, board entitled Shoe Prints at Bundy,
June 13, 1994.)

MR. P. BAKER: This the board you talked about.

Can you see it, Judge?

THE COURT: Yes.

MR. P. BAKER: This the board you talked about yesterday?

A. That's correct.

Q. Exhibit 408?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And from what I understand, the prosecution sent you photographs from
the sidewalk up into the driveway; is that true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you tried to document every shoe print you observed at the
crime scene, from the sidewalk to the driveway, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And the purple ones are right foot, correct?

A. Right and the pink are left.

Q. The blue dots, what are the blue dots, also?

A. Those are ones which do not contain enough detail in them to
determine if they are right or left, or if they're Bruno Magli.

Q. You can't associate them with Bruno Magli?

A. That's correct.

Q. How many blue dots are on here?

A. I haven't counted them.

Q. There are 23 blue dots on there?

A. That's past what the --

Q. 23 footprints you couldn't possibly associate with Bruno Magli
shoes?

A. That's correct.

Q. And by the way, did -- in the criminal case, you were asked some
questions about your hypothesis of the actions of the assailant, were
you not?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. Do you remember that?

A. Yes.

Q. And you testified in the criminal case that you believed the
assailant stepped in the blood around Nicole Brown Simpson, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Walked up the walkway, right?

A. Yes.

Q. At some point, turned around, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Walked back into the crime scene, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then eventually walked all the way out to the driveway,
correct?

A. That was one hypothesis.

Q. That was a hypothesis you put in front of the criminal jury, right?

A. That was what I stated as a possibility.

I made it clear I could not exactly determine the order of the shoe
prints.

Q. Okay.

But you talked about L and M.

Do you remember talking about that? That's the left foot, M, the right
foot, L, right about -- pretty close to her front doorway. Remember
that?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. And you hypothesized, when Mr. Bailey was asking you some
questions, that the assailant most likely stopped at that area and
stepped back into the vegetation, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And you don't know how long the assailant possibly could have stood
outside the line of sight from any walker by on the sidewalk, do you?

A. No, I do not.

Q. You can't tell that from the shoe prints?

A. No, I cannot.

Q. The assailant at L and M could have stood back outside the
vegetation for a few minutes, for all you know?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, the assailant was walking, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You could determine stride analysis, the gait analysis was that of
a person walking, not running, from the shoe prints you could observe
on Exhibit 40?

A. No. I don't examine stride analysis.

Q. Well, the shoe prints are pretty close together, right?

A. There's two sets of them.

Yes.

Q. They're pretty close together, as if the assailant is walking,
right?

A. If there's two sets, there's going to be -- obviously, they're
going to be more close together, because you have ones from one set so
close to the ones of the other set.

Q. But the patterns are pretty firm; you could ascertain that there
was weight put on it, as if the assailant was walking?

A. His foot was contacting the surface.

Q. That's what you testified to in the criminal case, that you believe
the assailant was walking, doesn't you?

A. I don't believe I stated anything of that nature.

Q. Nothing?

A. But there were hypotheses that were offered to me. I was answering
questions under those hypotheses.

Q. The shoe-print patterns on 408 are consistent with an assailant
walking, correct?

A. I don't profess to determine if the person was walking or running
or walking fast or walking slow.

Q. Okay.

Well, you testified in the criminal case, blood dries relatively
quickly?

A. Quickly?

It dries very quickly.

Q. Within five, ten minutes?

A. Depending on how much there is. There's a whole lot of variables
there; you can't just answer that question yes or no.

Q. You're right. My question is poor.

A shoe impression -- a blood drop would be dry in five to ten minutes?

A. Just a simple drop of blood?

Q. Um-hum, yes.

A. I would -- I would think that that would probably be dry in five to
ten minutes at the earliest, yes, unless it was raining or very misty
or something.

Q. Okay.

And a shoe impression would dry, I think you testified in the criminal
case, similar to that, about five to ten minute?

A. If it was in a pool of blood, it wouldn't; but if it was well down
the walkway, it would, yes.

Q. Okay.

And I think you said that a shoe print, the blood would dry in about
six to eight steps?

A. I didn't say it would dry.

I said there would be sufficient blood removed from the raised areas
of the sole, that you would fail to get the same representation of the
raised area pattern.

Q. Okay.

A. There would be no blood left on those areas.

Q. So significantly dry or significantly come off the sole?

A. Removed.

Q. Removed from the sole in six to eight steps, right?

A. Approximately.

Q. Okay.

By the way, did you see any footprints going east around the back
gate?

A. No, I did not.

Q. Okay.

You did see one shoe print going east, and that was up on -- let's
see; the one, two, third step -- a faint shoe print which you believe
was possibly going east on the third --

A. Yes.

Q. All right.

And just to be clear, 408 was meant to document every shoe print you
observed along this walkway?

A. Every one I had a photograph of, yes.

Q. You had photographs going from the sidewalk to the driveway?

A. Yes.

Q. Correct?

Okay.

Mr. Goldman had pretty distinctive shoes on that night, doesn't he?

A. Mr. Who?

Q. Mr. Goldman, Ron Goldman.

A. Oh, yeah.

The make was Patauga, P-A-T-A-U-G-A, I believe.

MR. P. BAKER: I think it's Pataqua. P-A-T-A-Q-U-A.

Let's take Mr. Bodziak's; he's the shoe expert.

MR. BAKER: I think it's Q-U-A?

THE WITNESS: I'd have to look it up; it's been a couple years.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) And you didn't observe any Patagua shoe prints in
this area around Nicole Brown's body?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you looked closely to see if there was anything around her body
or going down the walkway which was similar in fashion to Mr.
Goldman's boots, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the fact that there's no Patagua boot marks on her body or down
the walkway is consistent with the fact that Mr. Goldman was already
in the caged-in area before Nicole Brown Simpson's carotids were cut,
true?

A. That's true.

Q. And blood dries -- well, blood pools relatively quickly, doesn't
it?

A. It cools?

Q. Pools, pools.

A. Pools.

Well, if there's a lot of blood and it spills onto the sidewalk,
whether it's liquid or blood, it's going to form in pools. It can.

Q. How long would you estimate it would take for blood to flow down
that walkway from Nicole Brown Simpson to the sidewalk?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Foundation, and outside the scope.

MR. P. BAKER: You --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You looked at the walkway to determine the blood
flow, doesn't you?

A. You're referring to the portion between the fenced-in area and the
front of the street, Bundy Drive.

Q. Between Nicole Brown Simpson's body and the sidewalk.

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Outside the scope.

THE COURT: I don't think this witness is qualified as a blood-flow
expert. You want to qualify him, you may.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Do you have any experience in ascertaining the
lengths of time for blood flow?

A. No, I do not.

Q. Never done anything like that?

A. No.

Q. Now, I want to show you some photographs, Mr. Bodziak.

Well, first, you never saw any -- you were never made aware that there
were any bloody impressions in Mr. Simpson's residence?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Outside the scope, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: No, I have no knowledge of any footwear impressions in
Mr. Simpson's residence, no.

Q. And he had white carpet along his staircase and into his master
bedroom?

A. I've never been in his residence; I don't have any idea what it
looks like.

Q. Anyone ever showed you any pictures of that?

A. No.

Q. And when you're talking about blood in the Bronco, you testified
that carpet can pool blood from the grooves of the shoe, correct?

A. If there's some --

Q. Correct?

A. If there's some in the grooves, yes.

Q. You were not made aware that there were any shoe impressions along
the southern walkway of Mr. Simpson's residence?

A. I was not provided any, no.

Q. And there was no bloody impressions, as far as you are aware, along
the leaf -- down the southern walkway of the residence; is that true?

A. I'm not aware of any, no.

Q. Now, going back to the walkway at Bundy, I'm going to show you a
copy of Exhibit 43, of -- this is a copy of Nicole Brown Simpson's
back on the sidewalk and a couple stairs.

See that photograph, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Yes.

Q. By the way, do you see a shoe print on the first step up there?

A. Yes.

Q. That's not on your board, is it?

A. Which one are you pointing to?

You zoomed in now.

Q. I'm talking about the step.

A. There was one before you zoomed in.

Q. I'm talking about that step on Exhibit 43, the first step on the
right side.

You see that?

A. Are you pointing to the one with the leaf across it?

Q. Yes, sir.

A. No, I don't. That's not on the board, no.

Q. You forgot to put that one on the board, didn't you?

A. I don't believe I had received a picture of that, or determined it
was a shoe print.

Q. I thought you said they --

A. I can't see the board from here. I don't know what you're --

Q. Well, come on down.

I feel like Bob Barker.

(Laughter.)

A. No, that's not -- whatever this is, if you're saying this is a shoe
print, no, I did not examine that.

Q. You're a shoe-print analyst?

Isn't that a shoe print, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I can't tell from that photograph.

I wasn't supplied that photograph and I doesn't determine it was, so I
presume it wouldn't be. But if you have the close-up photograph of
that, I'd be happy to look at it.

Q. Sure.

You can't tell this jury whether or not that's a shoe print, correct?

A. Not if that -- no, I wouldn't -- wouldn't want to guess. This --

Q. Shoe-print analysis is kind of subjective, isn't it?

A. Not if you prevent it from being that way.

Q. Well, it's certainly not as subjective a science as fingerprint
analysis, is it?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. It is as subjective as fingerprint analysis?

A. With regard to identification, yes.

Q. You testified differently in the criminal case?

A. No, I don't believe I was asked that in the criminal case.

Q. Okay.

While you're looking at that, I'll pull up your criminal testimony.

(Referring to a photo given to him by Mr. Phil Baker.)

THE COURT REPORTER: Mr. Baker, are you going to give that a number?

MR. P. BAKER: That's exhibit 43.

THE COURT REPORTER: That's what he's looking at?

MR. P. BAKER: Yes.

THE COURT REPORTER: Okay.

MR. P. BAKER: In the criminal case, on page 32774, lines 4 through
32774, lines 4 through 14 -- 13.

(Reading:)

"Q. Mr. Bodziak, in your book, you indicate that in many law
enforcement offices (sic), footprint impression identification is
often a poor orphan, even in a document examiner's corner, fingerprint
guy's corner and so forth.

"A. I don't think I used the term 'poor orphan,' but I think I
understand what you mean.

"Q. No.

"A. It takes second or third place to another discipline, yes."

That was your answer, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, have you had a chance to look at Exhibit 43?

A. Yes.

Which question are you asking about, identification or about this?

Q. Upon closer scrutiny, Mr. Bodziak, is that a shoe print?

A. I can't tell from the photograph.

Q. You can't tell?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

What else would it be, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I'm not in the habit of guessing.

If you can determine it positively is a shoe print because you
received close-up photographs and it shows that detail, then you can
determine that -- if you can't determine it is, then I wouldn't guess
as to what it might be, whether it's a knee print, or if there are
some other hand prints or some other marks. I don't know.

Q. That could possibly be a knee print; is that right?

A. I don't know what it is.

Q. You were able to identify that as a shoe print? (Indicating to
photo.)

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

On exhibit 43, to the east of her body, there's another impression, is
there not? (Indicating to Exhibit 43.)

A. I can't see that from here, no.

Do you have the original photograph?

Q. Yeah. I'll bring it back.

That looks pretty similar to a Bruno Magli impression, doesn't it?

A. I can't see it from here.

Q. Why don't you get up and look closer at the camera.

A. I can see the camera.

There's a lot less detail in that than what you're showing on the
photograph.

I'd like to see the photograph.

Q. Here you go.

Here you go right here.

A. Are you asking me is that a Bruno Magli shoe print?

Q. That consistent with a print you identified as a Bruno Magli print?

A. I can't tell from this photograph; it's too small.

Q. Too small. Okay.

You ever try to make a determination whether that was a Bruno Magli
print, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I never received an enlargement of that photograph.

No, I doesn't -- doesn't conclude that that was a Bruno Magli print.

Q. You didn't put a blue dot on Exhibit 408, did you, for that --
where that imprint was?

A. I wasn't sent a picture of that to make an examination in the
criminal trial, sir.

Q. Okay.

So you weren't sent a picture of that one.

Let's throw up exhibit number -- on this -- next in order. This is a
little --

MR. BAKER: 2214.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Nicole Brown
Simpson at crime scene was marked for identification as Defendants'
Exhibit No. 2214.)

Q. This is kind of a gruesome -- well, let me see if I can mark that
next in order.

Is that a better photograph of it, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I wouldn't call either one of them very good.

Q. You can't positively identify that one?

A. I haven't examined this, and I was not submitted a shoe print of
that, a picture of that.

Q. We're going to take a break.

Would you like to take a look at it at the break?

A. No.

That is not the proper place to do an examination.

When you need photographic work and you may -- you can see a pattern
there. And it could be a Bruno Magli shoe print, from looking at it.
That's as far as I could tell you.

Whether there was a break or not, you don't have a photograph directly
over top with a ruler where you can enlarge it and make a physical
comparison. You cannot determine that.

Q. You don't -- can't determine whether or not they're Bruno Magli
shoe prints or not at a glance of the screen?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Now, let's go back to the exhibit.

How much time had you spent looking at photographs of the crime scene?

A. Well, if I were given that photograph and were asked that question
in the criminal trial, I would have gotten the original negative; I
would have made an attempt, with the triangular shape of the walkway,
to rectify that, so I wasn't looking at it out of perspective.

Then I would have made a comparison with the overlays like I did and
demonstrated yesterday.

Q. The prosecution never sent you this photograph, right?

A. No.

Q. Now, let's look up in the right-hand corner.

Is -- does that look like a Bruno Magli foot print to you?

A. Yes.

Q. Which one are we looking at?

MR. P. BAKER: I'm sorry. Top right corner.

THE COURT: No, no. I mean on the video screen.

MR. P. BAKER: Exhibit 43.

THE COURT: 243?

MR. P. BAKER: No. 43.

THE CLERK: 43.

THE WITNESS: Top right corner of this photograph or what you have?

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Top right corner of the screen at about 2
o'clock.

A. That would be --

Q. Here?

A. Here on the photograph (indicating).

Q. Here (indicating).

Is that consistent with the Bruno Magli prints?

A. It could be.

Again, I didn't examine that one for that purpose.

Q. No blue dot on the board as to that print, is there?

A. No, there isn't.

Q. Prosecution never sent you that photograph, right?

A. I was never asked to make a comparison of that area, no.

Q. Okay. My question was the prosecution never sent you that
photograph, right?

A. They --

Q. Yes or no?

A. The photograph, initially -- I'm trying to answer your question.

Q. At any --

A. Initially they did not, no.

Q. You got it at a later date?

A. Later, I was given it as a general crime-scene photographs, not to
examine the shoe prints.

Q. You never used it to examine whether or not there were Bruno Magli
prints at the crime scene?

A. I'm not sure I understand your question.

Q. You were sent this photo as a general crime-scene photo, and you
never looked at it to examine whether these prints on Exhibit 43 were
Bruno Magli prints there. Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Now, let's go up -- right there, see the upper impression, right there
in the -- move it about in the middle of Exhibit 43.

See that?

A. Could you point to it.

Q. Sure, sure.

(Counsel points to screen.)

A. You're calling that an impression?

Q. That doesn't look like an impression to you?

A. There's a lot of blood in that area and some pattern, but I don't
know if we could say that's a shoe impression.

Again, I didn't examine that for that reason.

Q. Consistent with the Bruno Magli shoe impression?

A. It could be. I didn't examine it.

Q. It's consistent with the Bruno Magli impression, is it not?

A. I didn't examine it.

Q. Those footprints, you'll agree they're shoe prints, are they not?

A. They may be.

Q. Okay.

Those imprints, we can agree on that, are consistent with an assailant
standing over the body of Nicole Brown after the carotids were cut, is
that true?

A. I don't know.

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Speculative, outside the scope, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Outside the scope. Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Well, Mr. Bodziak, you testified -- you testified
in the criminal trial as to the appearance -- or your hypothesis as to
how the assailant walked, did you not?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, materiality, outside the scope.

THE COURT: I think this witness is offered for shoe prints and shoes,
not as to analysis.

MR. P. BAKER: Can I approach, quickly?

THE COURT: No.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay. It goes to his credibility.

THE COURT: Sustain the objection.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) I want to show you another photograph, Mr.
Bodziak, and this is a photograph --

MR. P. BAKER: Which is exhibit -- we'll get it -- next in line --

Well, we won't give it a number yet. We'll go back and find the exact
number.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Seen that picture before, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Is this of the same --

Q. No.

A. -- area?

THE CLERK: Well, 2215.

THE COURT: 2215.

THE WITNESS: Can you show me the original picture?

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Sure.

Have you seen that one?

A. Yes, I have.

Q. Okay.

Did you examine that photograph for shoe prints?

A. Yes. Just as a general -- general picture.

Q. How much time did you spend examining this photograph, Mr. Bodziak?

A. After I was sent the initial 30 photographs, subsequently, when I
was in LA, I reviewed hundreds of photographs of the general scene
such as you've -- you're showing, me for the purpose of seeing if
there were any additional photographs taken with the ruler close up
for comparison purposes, and that was one of them that was taken. It
was in that book.

Q. It was in the first book or the second book?

A. There were -- was four or five books.

Q. How long did you spend examining this photograph?

A. I didn't make an examination of the photograph other than to look
at it to see if there was anything I thought might be worthy of asking
them about.

Q. Did you ask him --

A. Well, there was dog prints.

Q. Let me ask the question.

Did you ask him about this shoe print, Mr. Bodziak?

A. Which shoe print?

Q. Immediately to the left of the leaf, Mr. Bodziak.

A. Would you show me the picture again?

I can't answer it unless you show it to me.

Q. Okay. My fault. Right there?

A. I certainly couldn't look at this photograph and tell that was a
shoe print.

Q. Let me put it up on the screen.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 2215 on TV screen.)

Q. That pattern is similar to a Silga sole, is it not, right?

A. I can't --

Q. Right here, Mr. Bodziak.

A. I can't tell.

Q. You can't tell from that?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

A. That's way out of perspective, what you're looking at.

Q. Never asked to get any closer photographs of that impression, did
you?

A. Yes, I did ask. There weren't any.

Q. None closer.

Then that photograph shows a pattern similar in design to that
photograph, does it not?

A. I can't determine that.

Q. It's consistent with that photograph?

(Referring to Exhibit 49.)

A. I can't determine if it's in the --

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me. What number?

MR. P. BAKER: That is 49.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Going back to --

MR. BAKER: 2215.

Q. (MR. P. BAKER) -- 2215, how many tiles is that away from the body?

A. I have no idea. If you zoom back, you could count them.

Q. Five tiles from her neck, right?

A. Depending on which one you start counting, five or six, yes.

Q. It's a tile 11-1/2 inches long, 12 inches wide?

A. Approximately.

Q. So that impression, if it was an impression, was approximately five
feet away from her neck, right?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection. Outside the scope, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Correct?

A. If that's your assertion here, yes.

Q. That's not my assertion; that's what the photo shows.

THE COURT: Don't argue.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay. All right.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You don't know how long a time it would have
taken for the blood to go down in that tile?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, outside the scope.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Want to take --

THE COURT: You want a break?

MR. P. BAKER: I would.

THE COURT: 10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

Don't talk about the case, don't form or express any opinions.

(Recess.)

MR. FOSTER: That photograph is not 2215; it's 717.

THE CLERK: We'll leave it as 2215, though.

MR. FOSTER: I think 717 has already been received, as well.

THE CLERK: We might have to change it.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE CLERK: For the record, 2215 is Exhibit 717. Right. It's already
been received in evidence, so we won't have a 2215. It will be 717.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) Mr. Bodziak, you've testified in federal court
hundreds of times, haven't you?

A. Probably in excess of a hundred, yes.

Q. You know -- in federal court, you know you're not to be talking to
counsel at breaks?

A. I don't know that.

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) During the break you had a chance to talk to Mr.
Medvene?

A. There was some talk between us.

Q. During that conversation you had with Mr. Medvene, you discussed
questions you wanted him to ask you on the redirect examination,
right?

A. No, he was asking me questions.

Q. All right. You think that was neutral, unbiased to walk over to --

A. I'm his witness. He's asking me questions.

Q. You're his witness?

A. I could be your witness. Should, too.

Q. You didn't come over and talk to me, Mr. Bodziak?

A. You didn't ask me.

Q. All right.

Now, during the criminal case, you testified as to another shoe print
that wasn't identified on your board; isn't that true?

A. Which are you specifically talking about?

Q. Do you recall testifying that there was a shoe print on Nicole
Brown Simpson's dress, Item 86?

A. That's right.

Q. You created an overlay?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you -- during the 30 some-odd hours you had conversations with
Mr. Medvene, he told you, did he not, that the coroner who did the
autopsy believes that the bruise on her back was from postmortem
settlement, lividity?

MR. MEDVENE: Object. Outside the scope; it misstates the record.

MR. P. BAKER: I've got his deposition.

THE COURT: Sustain it for irrelevance.

MR. P. BAKER: Goes to his credibility.

THE COURT: His credibility may be attacked on material things.

MR. BAKER: On what?

THE COURT: I'll sustain my objection.

MR. P. BAKER: Can I approach real quickly?

THE COURT: No.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) What's a latent footprint, Mr. Bodziak?

A. One that is not visible to the naked eye.

Q. And as a shoe print analyst, you can use oblique light to pick up
latent shoe prints, can you not?

A. That's very possible, yes.

Q. And -- in other words, you can take high-powered lighting, put it
down at a crime scene, and observe shoe prints that are not visible to
the naked eye, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. The LAPD didn't do that, did they?

A. I have no personal knowledge of what they did.

Q. You asked the LAPD for soil impressions at the crime scene, didn't
you?

A. It was my job to ask them for all impressions that were
photographed that were shoe impressions, regardless of whether they
were sole or otherwise, photographs.

Q. And they never provided you any soil impressions, did they?

A. No, they did not.

Q. Okay. And if Mr. Lange testified in court that a hole at the
northeast corner of the caged-in area was from Mr. Goldman struggling,
those soil impressions would have been very relevant to your analysis?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, outside the scope.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. P. BAKER: What board is this?

MR. MEDVENE: 2211.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You assisted in making this board, 2211, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And this is a copy of the photograph you received from Harry Scull
and his attorney, the upper left photograph?

A. It's a photographic enlargement that was submitted to me by Mr.
Medvene.

Q. Mr. Medvene sent you this photograph?

A. Yes.

Q. And you made the contact sheets off the photograph Mr. Medvene sent
you?

A. No, that was made from the negative that Mr. Scull provided.

Q. All right.

A. As well as other photographs.

Q. Okay. And this is kind of -- you zoom in on the shoe print on the
photograph of Mr. Scull's, right?

A. Number 3 was taken directly from the negative that Mr. Scull
provided.

Q. Number 6 is a left-handed -- is it enlargements of the left shoe?

A. That's correct.

Q. Number 7 is a -- is a photograph you did in your laboratory, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you tried to do a similar photograph as to the Harry Scull
photograph, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And you met with Mr. Scull and his attorney, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. That was -- would have been in Washington, D.C.?

A. That's correct.

Q. You asked Mr. Scull some questions, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you learned that Mr. Scull took the photograph from five feet
in height, right?

MR. MEDVENE: Objection, hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. He stated to me it was from a monopod that was approximately five
feet in height.

Q. And I'm not a tall guy, so it's a little bit around my neck?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And Mr. Scull told you that the photograph was taken 25 yards away
approximately, 75 feet, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Mr. Scull told you it was sunny on that day, correct?

A. That's correct.

MR. MEDVENE: Your Honor, we weren't able to get into this area. We
tried to get in.

THE COURT: You tried to get into contact prints and how those were
made.

This is proper cross-examination because this witness is being asked
questions on things that this witness used to make his evaluation and
form his opinions.

MR. MEDVENE: All right, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You gave --

THE COURT: However, if you do persist in asking questions about the
photograph, you may open the door with regards to the contact prints.
So I just give you fair warning.

MR. P. BAKER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) I'm -- just let me be clear, Mr. Bodziak. I'm
just asking you questions about the photograph, the similar photograph
you took under your direction, that you showed the jury, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And so when you did -- and let me get the exact -- you also skimmed
his deposition, right, Mr. Scull's deposition?

A. Yes.

Q. And you did that to determine if there was anything in there that
would be pertinent in modeling the shoe or recreating a picture of the
shoe for comparison purposes, that's why you skimmed his deposition,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And when you conducted your similar photograph, you did it
outside, didn't you?

A. No.

Q. When you took that photograph, Mr. Bodziak, did you -- you took the
camera 75 feet away?

A. No, I did not.

Q. You put the camera five feet in height?

A. No, I did not.

Q. You took it inside, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. All right. And you put reflective paper underneath the shoe, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you put artificial lighting around the shoe, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And how high was the camera when you took this similar
photograph?

A. The camera was close to the ground.

Q. How high was it, Mr. Bodziak?

A. I didn't measure it. It was approximately two to three inches.

Q. Approximately two inches?

A. Two to three inches.

Q. Did Mr. Medvene -- when you were going to do this similar
photograph, to move the height down from five feet to two inches?

A. Mr. Medvene had nothing to do with what my decision was on how to
take this photograph.

Q. And you moved in the distance quite a bit, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. You moved it in from 75 feet to what, 2-1/2?

A. It's approximately 2 to 5 feet.

Q. Did you reduce the size of the model accordingly?

A. I'm not understanding what you're asking, "reduce the size of the
model."

Q. My question's unclear.

MR. P. BAKER: Let me put up a board. I can take this one down.

THE COURT: Oh, all right.

(Counsel adjusts the exhibit so as not to obstruct the view of the
Court.)

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) So, in Harry Scull's photograph, when you talked
to him, he was five feet -- the camera was five feet in height, right?

A. Approximately.

Q. About 60 inches?

A. Approximately.

Q. Okay. Here we go.

(Counsel draws on paper.)

Q. 60 inches in height, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And it was approximately 25 yards away. That would be 900
inches, right?

A. I'd have to get a calculator.

Q. Okay. 45 yards is 75 feet times 12 is 900, right?

A. If you say so.

Q. And Mr. Simpson -- Mr. Simpson was smiling in that photograph,
right?

A. I'd have to look at it. I didn't notice his face.

Q. All right. Let's assume he was smiling.

(Counsel draws stick figure.)

Q. He was 6 foot 1; 73 inches, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And when you took your similar photo, you put the camera 2
inches in height?

A. 2 to 3, yes.

Q. And you put it approximately 30 inches away, right?

A. It was more like -- closer to 5 feet.

Q. Well, you testified in your deposition it was 30 inches.

Would you like me to read it?

A. I don't believe I did. If I did I was mistaken. I didn't make the
measurement. I said just a while ago it was between 2 and 5 feet. I
think it was closer to 5.

Q. Around 30 inches, correct?

A. I think it was closer to 5 feet, but --

Q. And you never reduced the model, did you?

A. Are you speaking of proportion?

Q. Yes.

A. No, there was no need to.

Q. No need.

You reduced the angle accordingly, correct?

A. You're --

Q. 60 goes into 900 --

A. You're asking me if I did something that I would -- I would not
normally do. So the answer is no, I did not do those things.

Q. And your model was approximately three and a third percent of the
distances in the Scull model, correct?

A. I haven't calculated that.

It's totally insignificant, in my opinion.

Q. Just answer the question, sir.

It was approximately three and a third percent, correct?

A. I haven't calculated the percentages.

Q. About that?

A. I haven't calculated them.

Q. Nonetheless, if you had reduced Mr. Simpson to the same scale,
three and a third percent, Mr. Simpson would have been 2.43 inches
tall, correct?

A. Again, I haven't made those calculations.

Q. If your similar photo was accurate, Mr. Simpson would have been the
size of this pen cap, right?

A. I haven't calculated that.

Q. All right. Let me put Mr. Simpson right over there.

So if I understand your testimony, sir --

MR. P. BAKER: Got a camera, no batteries, no film. I promise. All the
officers checked it.

Q. (BY MR. P. BAKER) You put the camera about two inches in height,
right?

A. Two to three inches, yes.

Q. About the size of that laptop?

A. Approximately.

Q. Okay.

You were about, say, 5 feet away?

This was the 15 -- one of those fancy 15-inch rulers.

A. Approximately.

Q. So you were right about -- right about here?

(Indicating to jury box.)

A. That's correct.

Q. Lo and behold, you could see the bottom of the shoe?

A. That's correct.

Q. You had reflective paper under this?

A. That's right.

Q. You had lighting going all around?

A. No, there was lighting on top, 45 degree angles.

Q. So you could see the bottom of the shoe from that similar
photograph?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Bodziak, are you telling this jury when you were asked to do a
similar photograph you didn't put a camera outside, 5 feet high and 75
feet away?

A. I wasn't asked to make a similar photograph.

Q. You weren't asked to make a similar photograph. You tried to make a
similar photograph, right?

A. No, I did not.

Q. Page 45 of your deposition, line 16 through 46, line 2. (Reading.)

Question: So, for instance, you didn't ask him the type of camera, the
height the camera was at the time of the photo, was it the time the
photo was taken, the angle from which the photograph was taken; you
didn't ask him those things?

Answer: Yes, I did ask him those questions for the purpose of taking a
similar photograph of the shoe.

Question: You did?

Answer: Yes.

Is that what you testified to?

A. Yes, it is.

Q. Well, you reduced the size to three and a third percent of the
distance from what Mr. Scull told you, right?

A. I determined after I --

Q. Yes or no?

A. I can't answer your question yes or no.

Q. The only way you could take a similar photograph was to move the
distance in from 75 feet to -- in 72 feet, to about 3 feet, right?

A. I didn't make those calculations.

Q. And the purpose of showing Item 7 of this exhibit was to show this
jury that you could see the detail underneath the Bruno Magli shoe in
a similar fashion, right?

A. Exactly the purpose of taking it.

Q. That's all?

A. For demonstrative purposes.

MR. P. BAKER: That's all I had, Mr. Bodziak. Thank you. I have no
further questions.

THE COURT: Okay. Anything further?

REDIRECT EXAMINATION

(Counsel displays Exhibit 2211.)

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Would you explain to the jury why you took the
picture that Mr. Baker was just discussing with you as you took it in.

A. I took the picture, which is large number 7 of the right Bruno
Magli shoe, for purposes of demonstrating and recording my results.

The examination was made of the original shoe.

Q. When you say "for demonstration purposes," would it have aided the
demonstration in any way if a height of 5 feet were used, or was shot
25 yards away, or that the model in some way was 6 foot 1 inch? Would
that have changed that?

A. No, it would not.

Q. Could you tell us why not?

A. Well, the examination is done from the originals, too.

In other words, I would take the photograph, the number 4, and
actually have the shoe in my hand and make those comparisons. The only
purpose in taking the photograph was for demonstrating those results,
and in doing so, I took a series of photographs with a model wearing a
shoe; each time they moved their foot a little, and I picked one which
I thought was easy to place up there, and for whoever had to look at
it, to easily see the comparison that I made.

Q. And did it affect your conclusion that it was a Bruno Magli shoe in
the detail you gave yesterday, as to why you felt that way, because of
where you took the picture from?

A. No, the picture had nothing to do with my comparison. The
comparison was from the original shoe. The picture is for
demonstrative purposes and recording purposes.

Q. And when you say demonstrative purposes and recording purposes, you
mean what?

A. For use in note taking, for use in court display, for use in
transmitting your results to someone else.

Q. In your opinion, would you tell this jury whether the shoe shown on
Mr. Simpson's foot prior to the football game is identical to the size
12 Bruno Magli shoe that's Exhibit 395, that's been introduced in
evidence in this case?

A. Yes.

MR. P. BAKER: Beyond the scope.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. As I testified yesterday, the right and left Bruno Magli shoes are
-- excuse me. The right and left shoes on Mr. Simpson, depicted in
photographs number 1 and 2 on this board, are, in fact, Bruno Magli
Lorenzo shoes, as is the shoes in the photographs, number 7 and 8,
which were Exhibit 395.

Q. Now, we spoke during the morning break?

A. Yes, we did.

Q. We spoke in Mr. Baker's presence right here, sitting in the
courtroom?

A. Yes.

Q. During the -- you were asked about talking to folks during the
criminal trial.

Did you spend hours speaking to Mr. Scheck, one of Mr. Simpson's
attorneys?

A. Yes. There wasn't a single break down -- and even before I first
testified on rebuttal in the criminal trial, I spoke to Scheck, Mr.
Scheck, at length on many occasions.

Q. Your deposition was taken in this case. Mr. Leonard asked you
whatever questions he wanted?

A. Yes, he did.

Q. Have you ever refused any request by any member of Mr. Simpson's
defense team to talk with them and ask any -- answer any questions
they wanted?

A. No, I have not.

Q. Okay.

Of all the materials you've testified from?

A. I provided them copies of all these photographs, yes.

Q. You were questioned during Mr. Baker's examination about
identification of footwear and comparing that to fingerprints, and
some quote was read to you?

A. Yes.

Q. Does that quote, in your opinion, have anything to do with your
testimony about the objectivity of footwear identification?

A. No. The question I was asked, was about the similarity and the
potential identification of shoes and identification of fingerprints.

And the portion of the transcript was read -- which was read to me,
regarded the various disciplines or fields for which those
examinations were conducted in various laboratories.

Q. And when you spoke about the objectivity of footwear impressions
and your ability to determine that the bloody footprints that were
identifiable were size 12 Bruno Magli shoes, what did you mean by the
fact that this was an objective determination and resembled prints in
that regard?

A. Yeah. Objectivity is essentially leading and the evidence speaks
for itself, where subjectivity is kind of approaching guessing or, you
know, saying more than you should say, based on the evidence.

And in this case, there were many photographs. Some of these were very
closely taken with a ruler and they were very distinct. I could make
exact comparisons with the overlays of the shoes and with the shoe
soles themselves, and I could give very objective answers.

There were many other photographs which were taken, such as were shown
to me this morning that were as you could see something that might
have been a footwear impression or may have been a pattern similar to
the Bruno Magli design, we did not have the proper kind of photographs
to make that objective kind of comparison.

Q. Are you talking about the photos that were -- Exhibit 43 that you
were questioned about earlier?

A. Yes, I was.

Q. And with respect to that exhibit and the photos that were shown to
you, were you able to make the kind of definitive objective analysis
you've made with regard to the other footprints?

A. No, I was never given the proper type of photographs of those areas
that would have enabled me to make the kind of comparisons that are
detailed and asked and demonstrated -- excuse me, testified to
yesterday. With the overlays with the direct overhead examination
quality photographs.

In doing this type of comparison, each separate impression or alleged
impression must be independently examined. And so any of those
photographs, impressions, this morning or imprints or possible shoe
prints or whatever you want to label them, each of those would have to
be examined independently, not just examining them because there were
other Bruno Magli prints at the scene, presuming they were also that
same pattern, and that I did not have, nor were there taken adequate
photographs to do that.

Q. Did you examine every photograph that you understood was -- that
you believed was adequate for the purpose of making a definitive
objective determination?

A. I made every attempt to look at every photograph that the LAPD had
taken. For instance, the photograph shown to me this morning with
Nicole Brown Simpson's body lying there and being asked about
questions of blood appearance on the steps and in front of her body; I
asked for the envelope that was in that photograph, I asked for the
triangular piece of paper that was in that photograph, I asked for her
dress as potentially containing impressions, I asked for everything
that I could, including any additional photographs taken in a proper
manner, so I could make that type of examination.

Q. Now, with respect to your examination of the walkway, all the
footprints, all the physical evidence that was photographed,
everything you were asked about this morning, do you have an opinion
as to whether there is any evidence that more than one pair of Bruno
Magli size 12 footprints were at the crime scene that night?

MR. P. BAKER: Beyond the scope, Judge.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I can only testify based on the photographs I examined, that were
taken with rulers and close up, or showed adequate detail to make that
comparison. Out of all of those where I could see a design and where
the photograph was taken properly and I could make that type of
comparison, I was not able to find any other impression other than the
Bruno Magli size 12 design.

Q. And counsel asked you a few questions about the direction of
certain of the footprints.

A. That's correct.

Q. From your examination of the bloody footprint photos at the crime
scene, do you see any indication that more than one person left the
size 12 Bruno Magli footprints?

A. Based only on what I -- the examination I was able to make, there's
no indication that more than one person left size 12 Bruno Magli shoe
prints.

Q. Now, we've put on the board -- excuse me, put on the easel what's
marked 419, the Bronco carpet.

And certain questions were asked you about differences in testimony,
allegedly, and you were read certain testimony. I'll read you 32751.

MR. P. BAKER: I request that he read a question or ask him a question,
Judge.

MR. MEDVENE: I'm sorry, we'll be glad to go back.

MR. MEDVENE: Reading to you from 32750.

MR. P. BAKER: I'd ask that he be asked a question, not read his
testimony.

MR. MEDVENE: Let me withdraw and restate.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you previously state -- And you might go over
to the board, and if you did state this, point out where you were
talking about, if you wouldn't mind. (Reading.) I did notice --

MR. MEDVENE: And I'm reading from 32751, lines 1 through 7. I did
notice that there was this area here which is -- could possibly have
been a border of the shoe. And there also is some little, what I call
squiggles or little S shapes which might represent the curved areas
between the design elements, but they weren't clear enough or reliable
enough to make any kind of positive determination.

MR. MR. MEDVENE: I'll read further, at line 1, the area here.

MR. BAKER: No, no. Read the questions, don't go to his answer without
questions.

MR. MEDVENE: Excuse me, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: This is improper.

THE COURT: What are you doing?

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Did you -- Did you previously state in substance
where you saw the S mark, the S squiggle and what appeared to be a
border?

A. Yes. My testimony in the criminal trial in that transcript is
exactly what I testified to yesterday, that there is an area here
that's a possible border area here, that's a possible parallel line
border circle which is marked by No. 3, the squiggle or change in
direction which could have possibly been from the space between the
design elements.

Q. A question was asked about Exhibit 408 where you identified left
and right footprints and Mr. Baker pointed out a number of blue ovals
further down the walkway?

A. Yes.

Q. Was there sufficient detail for you to make a determination
positively that those were Bruno Magli footprints?

A. No. The photographs of those footprints, which are marked with a
blue oval area on the sidewalk, on the walkway, where you could see
blood, you could see it was within the sides of the area of a shoe,
but you couldn't see any sufficient detail, you couldn't see the
design elements, you couldn't see anything which would enable you to
compare that with any particular shoe design.

Q. Based on your investigation, did you make a determination that
after several years, stores that sold Bruno Magli shoes threw away
their receipts or records?

MR. P. BAKER: Objection, speculation, no foundation.

THE COURT: What is the question?

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) Based on your investigation, did you make a
determination whether the stores that sold Bruno Magli shoes did not
retain receipts after several years.

MR. P. BAKER: No foundation, speculation.

THE COURT: You may inquire as to what he specifically found. He can't
form an opinion as to what the practice was.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) What was specifically found in terms of record
keeping after several years?

A. The investigation wasn't conducted by me. I initiated it but I
didn't have any personal knowledge of the results.

Q. Based on your investigation could you tell me whether or not it was
determined that cash sales are not reflected in the receipts kept by
stores?

MR. P. BAKER: Same objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) With respect to the carpet and the blood found on
the carpet, is it true that that was Nicole Brown Simpson's blood?

MR. P. BAKER: Objection, no foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. MR. MEDVENE: Counsel asked you about Mr. Yamaguchi. Did you receive
information that a PCR test was done for that particular area and that
the Department of Justice matched that blood to Mr. Simpson's?

MR. P. BAKER: No foundation.

THE COURT: I believe there was a Mr. Yamauchi that testified, but not
a Mr. Yamaguchi.

They're two different names, you know.

MR. MEDVENE: Yes, Your Honor.

THE WITNESS: I have no knowledge of what Mr. Yama -- I'm confused.
Yamauchi --

THE COURT: They're written differently, they mean different things.

THE WITNESS: I have no knowledge of the examination or examination
results. I wasn't part of that.

MR. MEDVENE: I have nothing further, thank you.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. P. BAKER:

Q. Mr. Bodziak, your analysis is only as good as the pictures you were
provided, correct?

A. It's only as good as the evidence, in that case as the picture.

Q. You asked for a triangular piece of paper, you never got it?

A. That's correct.

Q. You asked for an envelope, you never got it?

A. Yes, I examined the envelope.

Q. You didn't get the piece of paper, right?

A. No, I don't believe that existed.

Q. Okay. Now, you said as to this impression it possibly could have
come from a Silga sole, right?

(Indicating to Exhibit 419.)

A. I said there were three areas that possibly could have come from
that sole. It was insufficient detail to make that determination.

Q. Insufficient detail, could have come from anything?

A. If there was another sole that had the capability of leaving those
marks, yes.

Q. Answer my question, it could have come from anything, right?

A. I answered that, yes.

Q. Yes or no?

A. If it was another sole that had the same -- similar detail I would
believe those marks, yes.

Q. You talked about the 23 ovals, right, earlier, when Mr. Medvene
asked you some questions on redirect?

A. That's correct.

Q. You couldn't possibly identify these as Bruno Magli designs,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. They could have been another design shoe, correct?

A. It's unlikely, but if you take each one independently, that's
correct.

Q. Thank you.

MR. P. BAKER: I have no further questions.

MR. MEDVENE: Leave it up.

(Referring to Exhibit 408.)

REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MEDVENE:

Q You're able to identify the variety of footprints that's identified
in blood as size 12 Bruno Magli from the cage area, back some 15
tiles, before the blue ovals start.

Why do you say it's unlikely?

A. Because there's a classic pattern of when you step in blood with
shoes and you walk down a walkway. First you're leaving more detailed
impressions, then you're leaving ones that have insufficient detail to
recognize their design or recognize their size. So I would expect that
that is -- that is a classic pattern, based on the work I've done and
my experience, where you will see most of them closer to the scene,
and the further they get away, first you get one or two that are
indistinct and then all of them are indistinct.

Q. If there was a second person would he have to jump about 30 feet
before he got to the blue area?

MR. P. BAKER: Speculation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. MEDVENE) In your opinion, from examining the photos and
where the shoe prints were found, what would a person do if he didn't
have a Bruno Magli shoe and left this blue imprint, how would he get
from the cage area to the area where the first blue imprint is found?

MR. P. BAKER: Speculation, beyond his expertise.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That person would have to have left the heavier blood impressions
that would be distinctly visible, prior to getting to the point where
he left the oval blue impressions. In other words, there would be
darker impressions that were recognizable before that person got to
the oval blue areas.

Q. Why is that?

A. Because that person, if he had blood on his feet or shoes, would be
depositing that blood as he walked or ran down the walkway, and also
only until he got to the point where enough blood had worn off of his
shoes would he leave the indistinct impression.

Q. Is there any indication of that from your examination of the
photos?

A. There was no indication from any photographs I examined in
connection with the scene, that there was any other set of bloody
footprints other than Bruno Magli.

Q. Thank you.

MR. MEDVENE: Nothing further.

RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. P. BAKER:

Q. One question.

You can't give an opinion to a reasonable degree of scientific
certainty that the shoes in that photograph are size 12, can you?

A. No, I cannot.

Q. Thank you.

MR. P. BAKER: Nothing further.

MR. MEDVENE: Nothing further.

THE COURT: Jurors -- you may step down. Thank you.

(Witness complies.)

THE COURT: You are excused until 9 o'clock tomorrow. Don't talk about
this case, don't form or express any opinions. This case is at the
stage where there may be intense media pressure on everybody. Please
do not allow yourself to be influenced in any way by anyone with
regards to this case. If anybody tries to influence you or ask you
questions about it, let me know.

Don't let anybody in your family, friends, relatives or strangers
approach you with regard to anything connected with this case. Don't
read anything about it. Don't watch anything on television about it.
Don't listen to anything on the radio about it.

All right. See you tomorrow at 9 o'clock.

A. Thank you.

MR. P. BAKER: Can we correct a couple of exhibits?

THE CLERK: Want to stay on the record.

MR. P. BAKER: Want to move in 2212 which is the overlay, 2213 which is
the photograph of the Bronco, 2214 which is a photograph of Ms.
Brown's body.

Any objection.

MR. MEDVENE: No objection.

THE COURT: They're received.

THE CLERK: Thank you.

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2212.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2213.)

(The instrument herein described was received in evidence as
Defendants' Exhibit No. 2214.)

(At 10:51 A.M. an adjournment was taken until Friday, November 22,
1996 at 9:00 A.M.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-8</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B008-193</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov22.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054040 text/html 224009
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:50:07 GMT
Last-modified: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 20:24:08 GMT
Content-length: 223816
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/22/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 22, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1996
9:10 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the
presence of the jury.)

THE COURT: Somebody has a motion?

MR. BLASIER: I have two brief motions I'd like to make.

As the Court is aware, Lawrence Schiller has written a book that
purports to contain a great deal of information provided to him by
Robert Kardashian, who is one of Mr. Simpson's attorneys.

Much of that material concerns privileged communications between
various members of the defense team and Mr. Simpson. In November --
November 28 of 1995, Mr. Simpson wrote a letter to all members of the
defense team, and the letter itself is privileged, but I've been
authorized to read a short portion, which states:

"I require that all information you have gained in the course of our
professional relationship be held inviolate. Unless and until you
receive express and written permission from me, any written
authorization shall be limited to specific communications described in
the authorization, shall not be construed as a broad or blanket
authorization or waiver; therefore, it is essential that any draft
manuscript be reviewed by me before it is shared with others, by
others or . . ." perhaps "others."

This was not complied with with respect to that particular book.

My motion that the plaintiffs be precluded from asking questions about
excluded material in this book, as Mr. Simpson does not waive, has not
waived his attorney-client privilege.

To do so -- To ask such questions in front of a jury would be
improper, require him to assert privilege in front of the jury.

My second motion is that they also be precluded from asking any
questions about his not testifying at the criminal trial, as that is
also privileged -- I think it's 913 of the Evidence Code -- would be
improper to ask any questions or comment about that in front of a
jury.

MR. PETROCELLI: This motion is totally improper. We've heard nothing
about it until just now, five minutes before Mr. Simpson is going to
take the stand. I don't have a clue what information they're talking
about, what they contend is privileged, what is not privileged, what
has been previously disclosed, what has been disclosed, and public
sources and depositions and statements by the defendant.

I don't know how to deal with this, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Well, you do know how to deal with that motion with regards
to his exercise of his right from self-incrimination from the criminal
trial.

MR. PETROCELLI: No problem with that.

THE COURT: That motion is granted.

The rest of it is denied without prejudice.

I don't see any basis on which I should grant a motion at this late
stage. There was ample opportunity to exercise that privilege at the
time the book was published. You should have had a motion at that
time.

MR. BLASIER: Mr. Simpson wasn't planning to testify at that time.

He's now testifying. He's making the motion. We are not waiving the
privilege. He should not be asked questions to assert it in front of a
jury.

THE COURT: He has testified at the time of deposition --

MR. BLASIER: No problem with anything he testified at deposition.
We're talking about this material in the book he has not already
testified to.

THE COURT: As far as I'm concerned, he's already published it; I think
he's waived it.

MR. BLASIER: He didn't publish anything, Your Honor.

THE COURT: He didn't bring any action to suppress it at that time.

MR. BLASIER: That's being considered at this time.

THE COURT: It's a little bit late.

MR. BLASIER: No, it's not late.

THE COURT: For the record, motion denied.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, for clarification, the first motion that
you did grant precluded me from asking Mr. Simpson -- or eliciting
that he did not testify at the criminal trial?

THE COURT: That's correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: No problem.

THE COURT: Okay. Bring in the jury.

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Good morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Plaintiff may proceed.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Pursuant to California Evidence Code Section 776, we call to the
stand, the defendant, Orenthal James Simpson.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, called as a witness pursuant to California
Evidence Code Section 776 by the Plaintiffs, was duly sworn and
examined as follows:

THE CLERK: You do solemnly swear that the testimony you may give in
the cause now pending before this court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

THE WITNESS: I do

THE CLERK: Please be seated.

And would you please state your name for the record.

THE WITNESS: Orenthal James Simpson.

DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. Mr. Simpson, you first met Nicole when she was 18 years old; is
that true?

A. That's correct.

Q. She was a waitress, just having graduated from high school?

A. A waitress, but I think she graduated when she was 16.

Q. And you were a football player in the NFL at the time?

A. That's correct.

Q. Almost 30 years old, right?

A. Twenty-nine.

Q. And a month away from 30, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were married at the time to your then wife?

A. Yes.

Q. And two children?

A. Yes.

Q. And living together, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you met Nicole, you struck up, immediately, a romantic
relationship with her, right?

A. Immediately, yes.

Q. And then in a short time, you got her a place to live, and the two
of you began your relationship together, right?

A. Yes. I helped her get a place to live, yes.

Q. And then about 1980 or so, she moved into your Rockingham
residence?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And by that time, you had left and divorced your first wife, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, you and Nicole lived together for about five years, until you
married in February 1985, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And in January 1992, Nicole told you she wanted to leave you,
right?

A. She wanted to separate, yes.

Q. Okay.

And the two of you then separated, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole filed for divorce shortly thereafter, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And the divorce was final in October, October 15 of that year,
correct?

A. Yeah, about that time.

Q. Okay.

And the following year, 1993, the two of you attempted a period of
reconciliation, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that lasted about one year?

A. I believe exactly one year.

Q. And it ended in May 1994, true?

A. Correct.

Q. Weeks before her death on June 12, 1994, correct?

A. Almost exactly a month.

Q. And you were together, then, with Nicole about 17 years; is that
right?

A. Most of 17 years, yes.

Q. And during that period of time, Mr. Simpson, there were some good
time and bad times, right?

A. Mostly good, yes.

Q. And there were bad times, right?

A. A few, yes.

Q. More than a few, right?

A. Well, like any long relationship, there was a few bad times, yes.

Q. We're only talking about your relationship, sir, not other
relationships. Okay?

A. Yes.

Q. And this was a passionate relationship at times, correct?

MR. BAKER: Objection; relevance.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And it was a problem relationship for you
throughout much of the time, true?

A. Not true.

Q. Did you not tell the Los Angeles police detectives who interviewed
you on June 13, 1994, hours after Nicole's death, that you had always
had problems with your relationship with Nicole; it was a problem
relationship?

A. Yes. We had problems in our relationship, but I don't think it was
mostly a problem.

Q. Did you not say that to the police detectives on June 13, 1994?

Yes or no?

A. Yes.

Q. You said that, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you said "I have always had problems with her, you know,
I, I, um, that -- that's our relationship, has been a problem
relationship," that was true, correct?

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. I'm going to object to reading that
transcript because that transcript is inaccurate. If he wants to play
the tape, he can play the tape for the jury.

MR. PETROCELLI: Object to the speaking objections.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: May I have the question read back?

I'm going to repeat it.

THE COURT: Leave out -- you know, I don't think it's necessary to put
in all the "ums" and things.

MR. PETROCELLI: I just wanted to be accurate, Your Honor, that's all.

Mr. Baker, it's page 19.

MR. BAKER: The transcript is inaccurate.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you not say to Detectives Lange and
Vannatter, on June 13, 1994, concerning your relationship with Nicole,
I always have problems with her; you know, that's -- our relationship
has been a problem relationship.

Did you say that?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you said that, that was true, correct?

A. When I said it, yes.

Q. Okay. And did you not also -- withdrawn.

Was it also true that you had frequent hassles with Nicole.

MR. BAKER: Vague as to time.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) In the course of your relationship with her, up
to -- up to the time that the two of you split up?

A. In the last few years, yes.

Q. Did you not tell Lenore Walker that you always had had hassles with
Nicole?

A. I may have.

Q. And did you not tell Lenore Walker, as if -- she can't stand when
things are quiet and had to be -- and had to shake them up?

A. Yes.

Q. And Lenore Walker, by the way, is whom?

A. I guess a psychologist.

Q. And --

A. Who specializes in domestic discord.

Q. And a person that you, your legal team retained in the course of
the criminal trial, right?

A. That's correct.

MR. BAKER: I want to approach on this.

THE COURT: You may.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

MR. BAKER: I object to using anything from Lenore Walker. And the
reason I object is, they designated Deitz and Dutton as these
profilers, and the Court has ruled that Deitz and Dutton were not to
be -- will not testify in this case.

Lenore Walker was retained as an expert -- as a rebuttal expert for
Deitz and Dutton, who are not going to now testify, and I object.

When we had to disclose -- we had to disclose because of the expert
designation, and that is the only reason that they got those notes.
And I object to those notes because that's a conditional waiver. The
conditional waiver has -- we're not going to call her 'cause Deitz and
Dutton are going to be called. I object to them using any of the notes
of Lenore Walker.

MR. PETROCELLI: On the 2034, Your Honor, her deposition was taken in
this action. The Code specifically provides whether or not she is
called as a witness, that her deposition testimony can be used. I'm
using it to directly impeach him.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Dr. Lenore Walker is a woman that worked with
you in the course of the criminal case, and you spent many days
talking with her about the nature of your relationship with Nicole,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Is it also true, sir, that in the course of your relationship with
Nicole, that the two of you knew how to push each other's buttons?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And it's also true that, from time to time, the two of you got into
very heated arguments that resulted in Nicole moving out for a day or
two or a week at a time?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And there were incidents when pictures would be thrown and lamps would
be broken, things like that, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And there were also physical altercations, true, Mr. Simpson?

MR. BAKER: Vague as to time. All these questions are vague as to time,
Your Honor.

THE COURT: Time.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'm referring to the time when the two of you
began a relationship in 1977, up until the time you stopped that
relationship.

MR. BAKER: It's over broad, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes, we had a physical altercation.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Well, there was more than one physical
altercation, true?

A. I think you'd have to define that. There was one very physical
altercation, and there were other times when they were not so
physical.

Q. What do you mean by "not so physical," Mr. Simpson?

A. Well, Nicole hit me a few times, and I didn't consider that too
physical.

Q. So the ones that were not so physical are the times when you say
Nicole hit you, true?

A. Yes.

And one time I grabbed her at a door and pushed her outside the door.
That -- if you call that physical, that's physical, yes.

Q. And how many times did Nicole hit you, as you say?

A. Numerous times.

Q. Okay.

And how many times, Mr. Simpson, in the course of these physical
alterations, did you hit Nicole?

A. Never.

Q. How many times did you strike Nicole?

A. Never.

Q. How many times did you slap Nicole?

A. Never.

Q. How many times did you kick her?

A. Never.

Q. How many times did you beat her, sir?

A. Never.

Q. And if Nicole said you hit her, she would be lying; is that true?

MR. BAKER: I object. Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) If Nicole told people and wrote down in her
diary that you hit her --

MR. BAKER: I object to this.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor; I'm not finished with the
question.

MR. BAKER: That doesn't matter.

THE COURT: I'll sustain it as to form.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You are aware that Nicole has told others that
you hit her?

MR. BAKER: I object to this, Your Honor.

THE COURT: That's overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you are aware that Nicole has written down
in writings that you hit her, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you are aware that her writings describe numerous incidents
when you hit her, true?

MR. BAKER: I object to this again.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: I think we need to approach.

THE COURT: No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor --

Please answer the question.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And your view is all that is false, true?

A. True, yes.

Q. Let's talk about 1989, okay?

That was an angry, intense, physical confrontation, true?

A. Correct.

Q. You're what, at the time, six-two, 215 pounds?

A. Yes.

Q. Nicole, five-eight, 135 pounds?

A. Yes.

Q. And you hit her that day, didn't you, sir?

A. No.

Q. Did your hand make contact with her face at all to cause injuries
on her face?

Yes or no?

A. I don't know.

Q. Didn't you testify -- you remember testifying in this deposition,
sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Remember I took your deposition over a number of days and Mr.
Kelly, Mr. Brewer also asked you questions?

A. Yes.

Q. Let me read from that deposition.

By the way, you understand and you understood then, you were under
oath and subject to the same penalty of perjury, just as you are
today?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Line -- page 1032, Mr. Baker, line 21.

MR. BAKER: Line again?

MR. PETROCELLI: Starting at 20, sir.

MR. BAKER: To where?

MR. PETROCELLI: 22.

MR. BAKER: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By me. (Reading:) "Q. You were in such a rage
that you don't remember what you did; is that right? "A. I remember
exactly what I did."

Now, tell this jury exactly how you caused all those injuries on
Nicole's face.

A. Well, as I told you throughout the deposition, I don't know how
exactly it happened, but I felt totally responsible for everything
that happened at one point.

Q. Mr. Simpson --

MR. BAKER: Let him answer the question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'm not asking about your responsibility; I'm
asking about your physical movements and actions.

MR. BAKER: I move to let this witness answer the question.

THE COURT: The answer was not responsive.

Go ahead.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please tell the jury exactly what you did to
cause the injuries on Nicole's face.

A. Well, as I explained to you, I don't know exactly how the injuries
took place, so I can't really answer that question.

If you want me to say what happened, I can tell you what happened.

Q. You said in the deposition, you remember exactly what you did,
true?

A. And I also told you I don't know how the injuries got there.

Q. You said you remembered exactly what you did, true?

A. Correct.

Not to cause the injuries; I didn't say that.

Q. You caused all those injuries, did you not?

A. I feel totally responsible for every injury she had then, yes.

Q. Sir, I'm not asking you about your feelings of responsibility. Do
you understand?

A. Yes.

Q. I'm asking you about what you did.

You caused the injuries to her face, did you not?

A. I feel responsible for every injury she had.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike as nonresponsive.

THE COURT: Stricken. Jury is to disregard that answer.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please answer the question.

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know what?

A. That I caused every injury.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let's put some photos up.

And I apologize to the jury for having to show those photos.

Exhibit 3.

(Plaintiffs' Exhibit 3 displayed on TV screen.)

Q. You've seen those photos before, Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. By the way, you say that some of the marks on -- on this photograph
are caused by Nicole picking her face that night, true?

A. No. I told you when she cleans her face.

Q. That night?

A. A lot of this redness would normally be there most nights, once she
picked and cleaned her face.

Q. You said in your deposition, sir, did you not, that that night she
was picking at her blemishes, and that caused marks on her chin and on
her cheek, true?

A. No. I said normally what -- when she does pick her face, that those
were marks that I'd normally see, yes.

Q. Did you not say in your deposition that she did so that night, and
that's why those marks appear on her face?

Yes or no?

A. I don't know --

MR. BAKER: That's been asked.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. -- Exactly.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Excuse me?

A. I'm not sure if that's what I said exactly.

Q. Tell the jury right now, did Nicole cause any of those marks to
herself that night by picking at her face?

A. I don't know, but --

Q. You don't know? Yes, no, or you don't know; that's all?

A. I don't know.

Q. Okay.

Let's talk about the injury to the lip, the split lip. How did she get
that injury, sir?

A. That looks more than what would normally be there. So at some point
during the night, I assume that that happened, once our -- our -- our
altercation began.

Q. Well, what did you do to cause that injury?

A. I wrestled her out of the room. And what happened when she was
outside, I didn't see when she fell, but I feel responsible for all of
that.

Q. But you've said you "feel responsible for," a number of times. It's
not necessary to keep saying it 'cause it's not responsive to my
questions.

MR. BAKER: I object to this. He can't give my client a speech.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let's talk about what you did physically with
your hand, your foot, whatever.

Tell us how she got the cut on her lip, the split on her lip, that
caused it to bleed that night?

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Tell us how she got the welt over the right eye.

A. I don't know specifically how.

Q. You did hit her there?

A. No.

Q. And it's your testimony, before this jury, that you never touched
her face with your hand, true?

A. I don't know, as I told you in the deposition, in wrestling her,
maybe my hand hit -- hit or was on her face. I certainly didn't punch
her or slap her.

Q. You say your hand was on her face.

Did you strike her at any time?

A. As I told you, I had her in a head lock at one point, in trying to
get her out of the door, so I would assume that my hand was somewhere
around her -- her face.

Q. When you say "head lock," you said in the deposition that you had
her head in kind of a head lock to get her out of the room, true?

A. At one point, yes.

Q. Are you saying that that's when that injury to her eye occurred?

A. I don't know when it occurred. But I'm assuming it occurred during
the altercation or when she fell outside and --

Q. I would ask --

A. -- I was a cause of all of that.

Q. I would ask that you not assume anything. Either tell us what
happened or --

MR. BAKER: I would ask Mr. Petrocelli not to give my client legal
advice.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I just want to know what your recollection,
sir, is; that's all.

Just tell us what you remember.

A. I don't -- I don't remember specifically when any single mark or
injury came on her face, any of them. But I'm assuming they all
happened during this altercation.

Q. I Would ask that you not assume anything. Just tell us what you --

MR. BAKER: Again I as that Mr. Petrocelli --

THE COURT: Overruled. He may frame the question as he wishes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Are you saying now that it's possible that you
might have struck her with your hand, delivered a below to her right
eye to cause that mark?

Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. It's not possible?

A. I did not punch her or slap her. That didn't happen.

Q. Did you strike her with your hand?

A. No.

Q. Now, this thing about wrestling, your view is that Nicole started
an argument that night about something that she was absolutely wrong
about, true?

A. Exactly, yes.

Q. And she came into the bedroom and started hitting you, right?

A. (No verbal response.)

Q. Correct?

A. Essentially, yes.

Q. And you tried to remove her from the bedroom and initially
succeeded in doing so and locked your door, true?

A. Again, yes.

Q. That's what you testified to?

A. I testified I locked her out once.

She got a key and got in.

Q. The first time -- the first time, you got her out of the room?

A. No, that's not correct. First time she went out, and I locked the
door.

Q. Okay.

Did you -- was there any wrestling the first time?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And to your knowledge, no bruising or marks or injuries to her
occurred during the time that you got her out of the room?

A. I didn't get her out the first time.

Q. The time she left the room?

A. Yes.

Q. You locked the door, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then what happened is, Nicole got a key and opened the door,
and you were sitting or lying on the bed, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you say Nicole started hitting you at that point, right?

A. She jumped on me.

Q. And then what you did was, to kind of try to just get her out of
the room, right?

A. That was my purpose, yes.

Q. Okay.

And you said Nicole is one of the most physically conditioned women
you've ever known, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You said, at least that night, she was quite a match for you,
right?

A. It's tough -- it was tough to get her out of the room, yes.

Q. So what you did is, you started to sort of try to, from behind her,
put your arms around her and get her out of the room, right?

A. I don't know if that's necessarily true.

Q. At some point, you think, in the process of trying to get her out
the 15 feet or so to the door so you could close your door, you got
her in a head lock; is that right?

A. I don't think that's necessarily true.

Q. Is that a fair description?

A. No.

Q. Well, tell us, then.

A. She jumped on me, on the bed, and with her knees and arms -- and
then I kind of grabbed her and we kind of fell over on the floor.

And then I was trying to get her -- to get her out of the door, and
she was grabbing things and hitting. And eventually, I got her out of
the door.

Q. Okay.

And when you said you grabbed her, you put your right hand into a fist
--

A. Yes.

Q. -- just now.

Is that what you did that night when you grabbed her?

A. Quite possibly when I grabbed her arm, quite possibly I did.

Q. When you did -- now, you just put both hands in a fist.

When you did it that night, did you punch her in the face with your
hands?

A. No. No.

Q. Did you put your fingers and hands on her throat and leave marks on
her throat, sir?

A. I don't recall doing that at all, no.

Q. You are aware she had marks on her throat, are you not?

A. I'm aware that someone said she did, yes.

Q. You believe that's false?

A. I never saw them. And the next day, she showed me all her bruises.

Q. She showed you everything the next day?

A. She showed me something here, and this -- this was obvious to me.
(Indicating to arm and head.)

Q. You didn't see any marks on her throat?

A. No.

Q. No hand print or anything like that?

A. No.

Q. It's your testimony that you never touched her throat, right?

A. I don't know.

When you say "touched her throat," I was wrestling her; I could have
touched her throat, yes.

Q. And how could you have touched her throat?

A. I don't know. Maybe -- I don't know. If you want to wrestle, you
know -- I don't know. You know, it happens in a wrestling match.

Q. Would you like to demonstrate to me, sir, how you had her head in a
head lock with the Court's permission?

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to that, Your Honor.

THE COURT: I don't think it's necessary.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So you don't remember how these injuries
occurred, true?

A. I assume they occurred during this event, but I didn't see -- you
know, when you're doing things, you don't see exactly, you know, when
they happen. I just saw the next day or later on, to an extent that
she had them, and I -- I felt I was responsible for them.

Q. Well, one thing you are clear about, though, is that however these
injuries occurred, it didn't result from your fist striking her or
your hand striking her --

A. Yes.

Q. -- and your hitting her in any way, true?

A. True.

Q. Now, once you got Nicole out of the room, you testified in your
deposition, that was the end of the altercation. True?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you told a very different account of this incident, sir, to
Dr. Lenore Walker, did you not?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Did you not tell Dr. Walker that Nicole, after you had an argument
in your room --

And by the way, this argument was over Nicole's belief that you were
buying expensive earrings for another woman and were being unfaithful
to her, true?

A. I think it was over her misinterpreting what a girl named Kathryn,
Marcus Allen's wife, said to her.

Of course, she called Nicole the next day and explained it to Nicole.

Q. Did you hear my question, Mr. Simpson?

MR. PETROCELLI: Could you repeat it?

You can answer it yes or no.

(Reporter reads the record as follows:) "Q. Did you not tell Dr.
Walker that --

MR. PETROCELLI: Next question.

THE COURT REPORTER: I don't have that as the next question.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me reask it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This argument that you and Nicole had began
when you -- and Nicole accused you of buying expensive earrings for
another woman, true?

A. That's not necessarily true.

Q. Not necessarily true?

A. No. She made -- she alluded to something and she never talked about
what it was.

Q. But the gist of it was that you had bought expensive earrings for a
woman other than her, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you told Dr. Walker that Nicole, in the course of this argument,
broke an expensive lamp shade and ran out of the room, right?

A. (No verbal response.)

Q. Correct?

A. Yeah, partially, yes.

Q. And you told Dr. Walker that Nicole then went to the bathroom in
the -- in the hallway, and that you locked her out of the bedroom,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Then Nicole went downstairs and buzzed you up, but you ignored the
buzz, true?

A. That's not correct.

Q. And then you went downstairs to the kitchen, sir, where Nicole was
at that time, true?

A. That's not correct.

Q. And you got mad, you grabbed her from behind, and you dragged her
out the front door, correct?

A. That's not correct.

Q. You told all of that to Dr. Walker, true?

A. That's not correct.

Q. And you saw Dr. Walker taking notes in the course of your
conversations, true?

A. That's -- I saw her doing that, yes.

Q. Okay.

And you weren't trying to mislead Dr. Walker, were you?

A. No, I wasn't.

Q. Now, it's also true that Nicole then ran to one of the guest rooms
on your property, where your then housekeeper, Michelle, lived,
correct?

A. She ended up there. I don't know if she ran there. I didn't see
them when she -- when she ran there.

Q. You followed her to Michelle's room to continue the argument, true?

A. I went out to Michelle's room, yes.

Q. You had no reason to go out to Michelle's room if you were trying
to simply quiet things down, did you, sir?

A. I don't agree with that.

Q. You could have stayed in your room, upstairs, after you succeeded
in wrestling her out of the room, locked the door, and gone to sleep,
true?

A. Well, I could have stayed up there, yes.

Q. And you did not do so, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you went to Michelle's room, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you pounded on the door and Michelle let you in, true?

A. No.

Q. And Nicole was dressed in sweat pants and a brassiere and nothing
else at the time you entered Michelle's room, true?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you told all of that to Dr. Walker, true?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you told none of that to me in your deposition, true?

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know?

A. I don't know. I don't -- nine or eleven days, I don't know what we
talked about. We talked about just about everything.

Q. Well, we'll get into that.

Now, when you entered Michelle's room, you began to scream and yell at
Nicole, who was on the phone, calling the police. True?

A. No.

Q. And you told all of that to Dr. Walker correct?

A. No.

Q. And you got on the bed, with Nicole underneath you, and you grabbed
her arms, punched her, and scratched her, correct?

A. No.

Q. She punched you and scratched you, correct?

A. No, she --

Q. Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. You got on top of her on the bed, true?

A. She jumped across the bed.

Q. You pushed her onto the bed, sir, true?

MR. BAKER: Let him finish his answer.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. She got on the bed and was getting across the bed, and she was
yelling at me, and she ended up leaving the room.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You remember exactly what you did that evening,
as you said in your deposition, right?

A. Upstairs, yes.

Q. Oh, you don't remember exactly what you did downstairs that
followed what, minutes later?

A. I remember exactly what I did, but not exactly what she was doing.

Q. So now you're saying that you do remember exactly what you did, not
only upstairs, but downstairs, true?

A. Mostly, yes.

Q. Okay.

So you didn't mean what you just said a second ago when you said, I
remember exactly what I did upstairs?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you're saying you remember exactly what
you did upstairs and downstairs, true?

A. For the most part yes.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

Now, you would agree, sir, that you had a physical confrontation with
Nicole on the bed, in Michelle's room, however it came about, and
whoever was hitting whom, you would agree that that was a physical
confrontation, was it not?

A. I mean, in that we may have touched, yes, but it wasn't what
happened upstairs.

Q. What do you mean, "touched?"

MR. BAKER: Judge, can we take that off the monitor? We're not asking
questions about that.

(Mr. Foster removed Exhibit 3 from the TV screen.)

A. That when I walked toward -- to her, she yelled at me and kind of
pushed the phone at me. And I was trying to tell her to stop and talk.

And she jumped over onto the bed, got to the other side of the bed,
said some things, started to the foot of the bed, and went out the
door, where I think Michelle was.

Q. Okay.

So at no time, then, did you tell Dr. Lenore Walker that you were on
top of Nicole on the bed, holding her down till she calmed down; she
was punching and scratching you; you put her in a head lock; you let
her go, and then she ran out?

A. That was upstairs.

Q. At no time did you tell that -- that that occurred downstairs,
true?

A. It did.

Q. You would agree that you had some type of physical confrontation
with Nicole in that bedroom downstairs?

A. I wouldn't describe it as that, but we probably touched. But I
wouldn't describe it as physical.

Q. And your touching was what, trying to grab her?

A. Yeah. She had kind of pushed the phone at me, and I was trying to
make her be still. And she got on the bed, and got to the other side
of the bed, said some things to me. And I think walked -- came to the
end of the bedroom, where I guess Michelle was at the door, and they
went out the door.

Q. So Michelle observed all of this, didn't she?

A. I don't know. Michelle was behind me and the door was open, so I'm
assuming she was there.

Q. She was right there in the room while you were engaged in a
physical altercation with Nicole, true?

A. I think she was standing right at the door and the door was open,
so I can't say if she was actually in the room or standing outside of
the room.

Q. She was looking at what was happening, true?

A. You'd have to ask Michelle.

MR. BAKER: Objection.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) True?

A. You'd have to ask Michelle.

Q. You don't know?

A. I don't know.

Q. The police came out, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you've heard the testimony that Nicole told the officers that
you had punched her, and pulled her hair and so forth, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And those were true statements by Nicole, were they not?

A. No.

Q. And you saw --

By the way, the next day, Nicole had to go to the hospital, St.
John's, right?

A. Had to go?

Q. Went.

A. Yeah.

I asked her to go to CNI.

Q. I asked you if she went to the hospital.

A. Yes. We asked her to go.

Q. I didn't ask who asked her; I just asked you if she went.

A. Okay. Okay.

Q. Okay?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you go to the hospital, by the way, for any treatment?

A. No.

Nicole and I were trying to keep our distance.

Q. Did you fall down in the mud and get all muddy and dirty that
night?

A. No.

Q. Were you shaking with fear that night?

A. No.

Q. Were you injured that night?

A. I mean, not really, not what I would call an injury.

Q. Did you have marks all over your face?

A. No.

Q. Did you have bruises under your shoulders?

A. No.

Q. Now, you're aware Nicole told the doctor at the emergency treatment
facility that you hit her face with your fist?

A. No.

Q. You're aware that that's in the medical record in evidence?

MR. BAKER: Objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Move to strike the question and the answer.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let's go to the one of -- the other --
underneath the shoulders.

MR. FOSTER: 9.

MR. PETROCELLI: Exhibit 9.

(Mr. Foster displayed Plaintiffs' Exhibit 9 on the TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Was this taken a couple days later, Mr.
Simpson?

A. I don't know.

Q. Now, can you tell us how this severe bruising to the right shoulder
occurred?

A. Not exactly, no.

Q. You don't know?

A. I would assume during the course of us being upstairs, or I would
assume more, then, maybe when she fell.

Q. You did -- but you don't know?

A. I don't know exactly. But I would assume when I was being physical
with her, it took place.

Q. Basically, you're -- when you described this incident, sir, you
were at all times trying to restrain Nicole and bring peace to the
situation?

A. No.

Q. You were trying to restrain her, right?

A. I was trying to get her out of my room.

Q. To stop the fight, right?

A. I don't know if that was my thought at the time.

My thought at the time was, I didn't want her in the room, and I
physically attempted to get her out of the room.

And I was wrong in doing that.

Q. You physically attempted to get her out of the room because she
wouldn't leave, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So, in your mind, you weren't battering her that night, were you?

A. At the time, I would have said no but what I know now, I would have
said yes.

Q. But at that time, 1989, you weren't hitting her or striking her or
battering her, true?

A. At the time, I was.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. (Continuing) At the time, I was being wrongly physical with her,
and I physically tried to get her out of the room.

And I've also said then and now I was wrong.

Q. Mr. Simpson, based on what you testified to, saying you're wrong
and you accept all this responsibility, what did you do wrong, sir?

A. I physically tried to impose my will on Nicole, and I shouldn't
have done it.

Q. By trying to get her out of your room?

A. Exactly.

Q. As she was beating on you?

A. No. She jumped on me. At that point, I reacted a way I shouldn't
have reacted.

Q. She's hitting you and striking you and throwing things, and you
tried to get her out of the room, and for that you were wrong?

Is that what you're saying? Yes or no?

A. I was wrong for everything that led to this.

I told the investigating officer and everybody I was totally wrong.

Q. Would you answer the question?

I just want you to answer my question. Your lawyer can ask you all the
questions he wishes when it's his turn.

Can you repeat my question?

MR. BAKER: Move to strike the preamble.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Answer the question, please.

THE WITNESS: What's the question?

Q. We'll have it repeated, sir.

(The reporter read the record as follows: "She's hitting you and
striking you and throwing things, and you tried to get her out of the
room, and for that you were wrong?")

THE WITNESS: How I acted? Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) The answer to the question is yes?

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

Now, after this incident, sir, you wrote this letter to Nicole, did
you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you apologized profusely and repeatedly to her, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Could you put on Exhibit 13.

(Mr. Foster displayed Plaintiffs' Exhibit 13 on the TV screen.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Could we have the board? Why don't you get the board.

(The instrument herein referred to as Copy of a letter from O.J.
Simpson to Nicole Brown Simpson was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 13.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you wrote some letters because you
regretted what you had done, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And this is one of the letters where you expressed how wrong you were
for hurting Nicole, true?

A. Correct.

Q. You also said in this letter that you had gone crazy, you got
crazy, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And when you said to Nicole in that letter that you got crazy, sir,
you were not merely talking about defending yourself, were you?

A. No.

Q. You were not merely talking about trying to get her out of the room
because she was hitting on you, true?

That's not what you meant when you said you got crazy, true?

A. I believe that's what it went to, yes.

Q. What exhibit is this board?

A. 13.

Q. Excuse me?

A. The letter, 13.

Q. The letter is Exhibit 13?

MR. BAKER: I object to the board. It's argumentative to highlight
certain portions of it.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you said, sir, "thinking and trying to
realize how I got so crazy, I had such emotional feeling towards you
that were as high and as any I'd ever felt. Must be because of those
feelings that I acted -- reacted so emotionally.

When you said those things, you were apologizing to Nicole for hitting
her, were you not?

A. No, as I said, realizing.

Q. Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. After this incident, you and Nicole had quite a difficult time for
a while, true?

Yes or no?

A. I think you'd have to define "difficult" for me, please.

Q. There was a serious problem in your marriage; and, in fact, you
moved out for a while, true?

A. Moved out? I'd -- I stayed at a friend's house for two nights. I
didn't move any clothes out or anything, but I felt that it was, for
us, to what reached a point where we got this physical with one
another, that we should do something about it.

Q. And you were very concerned, sir, about losing Nicole at that time,
were you not?

A. I was concerned about losing Nicole at any time, even though there
was no indication that -- from either one of us that we would split,
but --

Q. I'm just asking you about that time.

Were you or were you not concerned about losing Nicole for what you
did to her on January 1, 1989?

Yes or no?

A. Yeah.

Yes, but --

Q. Okay.

A. Yes.

Q. Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have Exhibit 15 on the board, Steve, for a
second. The second page, just put it on the TV monitor.

(The instrument herein referred to as Copy of letter from O.J. Simpson
to Nicole Brown Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 15.)

(Mr. Foster displayed Plaintiffs' Exhibit 15 on the TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You wrote to her, "I love you and losing you is
the only thing that matters to me," right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were very worried that you would lose Nicole at that point
in your life, true?

Yes or no?

A. I was worried about losing Nicole at any time, even though --

Q. Mr. Simpson, we're not talking about any time; we're talking about
when you wrote the letters, sir.

A. I didn't want to lose Nicole at any time, including when I wrote
this letter.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike as nonresponsive, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please answer the question.

When you wrote that letter after this physical confrontation between
Nicole and you, you were very concerned about losing her; yes or no?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: And go to Exhibit 14.

(The instrument herein referred to as a three-page letter to Nicole
Brown Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
14.)

(Mr. Foster displayed Plaintiffs' Exhibit 14 on the TV screen.)

Q. And you tried to make some kind of amends to her, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Including financial, correct?

A. I don't -- I couldn't characterize it as that, and I wouldn't
totally characterize it as that, no.

MR. PETROCELLI: Get ready on Exhibit 14.

Take it off the screen, then.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let -- let me give a little background here.

You and Nicole got married in February 1985, and before you got
married, you asked for and received a prenuptial agreement, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that prenuptial agreement prevented your previously accumulated
wealth from becoming community property of Nicole's and yours, true?

A. Partially.

Q. And you were worth a lot of money when you got married, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Under that agreement that you entered into prior to marriage, all
the money you had acquired up to that time and all your properties and
all your holdings would remain your own and not Nicole's?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, when I say "worth a lot of money," by that we're talking
millions and millions of dollars?

A. I would imagine so.

Q. Okay.

So now, after this incident on January 1, 1989, you were so concerned
about losing Nicole, and you were so concerned about what you had
done, and you agreed to tear that prenuptial agreement up if you ever
hit her again, true?

A. Not when I made that offer, no.

Q. You had your lawyer write up a document that said if I hit you
again, I will tear up the prenuptial agreement, true?

A. That's right.

Q. And you did that in order to make sure that Nicole did not leave
you at that time, true?

A. Incorrect.

Q. And you were also concerned, were you not, sir, about the damage
that this incident might have to your public name, reputation, and
image, true?

A. I think I always would have had those concerns, yes.

Q. And you were concerned about it at that time, right?

A. I don't think that was a concern at that time.

Q. Okay.

Your image has always been important to you, sir, has it not?

A. Who I am, yes.

Q. And you also have been aware of your image, right?

A. Yeah. I always know people like me, yes.

Q. You wrote when you first began your football career back in the
first book that you authored, "I have been praised, kidded and
criticized about being image conscious, and I plead guilty to the
charge," true?

A. At that time, yes.

Q. And you wrote that, quote: "I tried all the images." End of quote.
True?

A. I don't recall that, no.

Q. It's in your book.

A. I didn't write the book.

Q. You approved the book, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You wouldn't allow anything in there about you to remain if it were
false, would you?

A. I think that's a certain license people take when they write books
and --

Q. You tried --

A. -- that was the license that was taken.

Q. You tried all the images, did you not?

A. No.

Q. And did you also write that the ghetto makes you want to hide from
your real identity, from cops, from teachers, and even from yourself,
and it forces you to build up false images humble, swaggering, casual,
or tough in order to handle your enemies and impress your friends.
That's what you wrote?

A. No, I didn't write that.

Q. And that's in your book, true?

A. It's in my book, but I didn't write it.

Q. Now you disavow that, right?

A. I happen to believe a lot of that sentiment, but I didn't write
that, no.

Q. You agree with it?

A. A lot of it, yes.

Q. You agreed with it at the time and you agree with it now, true?

A. In the ghetto, I agree that you have to at times hide behind a
tough exterior. Yes, I do agree with that.

Q. Mr. Simpson, you're not saying that you don't agree with what was
put in the book under your name or about your -- all about you, first
book ever written -- you're not saying that to this jury?

A. In general, I okay'd the book.

Q. Okay.

A. A agree with a lot of the sentiment in the book, but I didn't write
those exact words.

Q. You didn't take any legal action to prevent this book from being
publicly issued?

A. No.

Q. Or to take it off the market, did you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, in that book, you also wrote, quote: "I think I lie
pretty effectively," did you not?

A. No.

Q. You are aware that that quotation is attributed to you in your
book, are you not?

A. Now I am, yes.

Q. "Now" means when? Right now, the first time?

A. Yeah.

Q. You never saw that before?

A. Well, I think I read the galley of the book before it went to press
in 1969, and I haven't read it since.

Q. Page 57, quote:

How can you tell me -- asked -- I'm referring to you -- quote:

"I think I lie pretty effectively." End of quote.

You don't accept that when you lie, you look so serious and intent on
what you're saying, it gives you away. When you're saying something
and you're laughing, that's the only time I can tell you're telling
the truth, and you said I figured that it was something to keep in
mind for my acting career, right?

A. I don't know, I don't recall saying that, but --

Q. You are a pretty effective liar, are you not?

MR. BAKER: Object, Your Honor, that's argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You lied to cover up the 1989 incident with
Nicole, true?

A. No.

Q. You told Roy Firestone on a national television interview on ESPN
the following:

Quote: We were both guilty. No one was hurt, it was no big deal, and
we both got on with our lives. End of quotes.

You said that on television, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And that was absolutely false, true?

A. I disagree with you on that.

Q. Did Nicole get hurt?

A. She had some bruises.

Q. Are you minimizing her injuries now, sir?

A. I'm not minimizing my action. But we got on with our lives.

Q. I'm talking about your statement no one was hurt, that was --

A. Nicole --

Q. -- a false statement, true?

A. Technically.

Q. It was a lie?

A. I disagree with you.

Q. It was false?

A. I disagree with you.

Q. It was true?

A. I disagree with what you're saying.

Q. Was it true or false that no one was hurt? Answer my question.

A. Nicole, yes, she was.

Q. So Nicole was hurt, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you did not tell the truth about it and you attempted to
minimize the incident to cover up, true?

A. It was a sport show, and yes, I most definitely on this sport show
minimized what -- minimized what happened in my personal life, yes.

But not to the police officers, I didn't minimize it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) We're talking about Roy Firestone, okay?

A. Okay.

Q. And in trying to minimize, you did so in order to try to protect
your interest, correct?

A. Protect my family first and foremost.

Q. And protect you, true?

A. I don't know if that's what I was thinking. I just thought it was
an inappropriate question on a sport show and I didn't think it was
the country's business what took place in my home.

Q. So you were not trying to protect and hold up your good name and
image, is that what you're telling the jury?

A. I've also attempted to protect my family, my name and my image, of
course, yes.

Q. And you were trying to protect your family, your name and your
image in answering those questions, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And in doing so you were also protecting yourself, correct?

A. I'm a part of my family. My name and my family.

Q. So you were also -- you don't have any problem with admitting you
were trying to protect yourself, right?

A. No.

Q. You have no problem saying that, do you?

A. You're correct.

Q. Okay. And when you were trying to protect yourself, and it was
necessary to lie, you lied, right?

A. I think I may have minimized the situation, as you said, because I
didn't think it was a proper forum to be asked that question on
national TV.

Q. You told another lie, too, you said it was no big deal, true?

A. As far as the country was concerned, I thought it was no big deal.

Q. Well, it was a big deal to you, wasn't it?

A. Certainly was.

Q. We'll go to that document. You offered Nicole, tearing up your
prenup, that was worth millions of dollars, wasn't it?

A. That's absolutely right.

Q. It was a big deal to Nicole, right?

A. I would think so.

Q. And you said she just got some bruises; is that right?

A. That's what she got.

Q. Not a big deal, some bruises, right?

A. To me and to Nicole it was a big deal. To America -- I didn't think
it was any of their business. And to me it was no big deal for America
to know what happened in my home.

Q. Okay. So when you said it was no big deal and we both got on with
our lives, what you were saying is it was no big deal to America,
that's what you were saying, right?

A. That's what I was implying to America, yes.

Q. And Nicole was hurt, wasn't she, sir?

A. Yes, emotionally she was hurt.

Q. And physically?

A. And physically she was bruised and hurt, yes.

Q. You saw those injuries to her face, right?

A. I saw those bruises, yes.

Q. More than bruises --

MR. PETROCELLI: Good time?

(Referring to break.)

THE COURT: No, I would like you to move on.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, you offered Nicole that document in
February, right?

A. Yes.

BY MR. PETROCELLI: Can we see that document.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) She didn't sign it until August, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. So it took her some 8 months after the incident to agree to
sign that document, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put it on the Elmo.

MR. GELBLUM: 813.

(Exhibit 813 displayed on Elmo.)

(The instrument herein described as a Document dated 2-3-89 was marked
for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 813.)

MR. PETROCELLI: And can you move this up a little bit, right here.

MR. GELBLUM: Done.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm sorry.

(Counsel moves over.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You wrote her, if I ever willfully inflicted --
if I ever willfully inflict physical injury on you hereafter, I hereby
agree that the prenuptial agreement between you and me shall be null
and void, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And by the way, that's not your handwriting or your signature, you
had your lawyer write that out for you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole signed it 8 months later, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

By the way, you know who Frank Olson is, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Frank Olson was one of your mentors in the commercial world, right?

A. Yes.

Q. He's the chairman of Hertz Corporation?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were Hertz's leading spokesman for many, many years going
back to the 70's, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when the '89 incident occurred, you had a conversation with Mr.
Olson a day or two later and put Nicole on the phone, correct?

A. I don't know if was a day or two later. I certainly had --

Q. Couple days?

A. -- certainly had a conversation with him after.

Q. And you told Nicole -- you told Mr. Olson, sir, that Nicole broke a
lamp, you saw what happened and you shoved or pushed her out of the
door, the maid saw it, heard the noise, overreacted and called the
police, and that was the extent of the incident?

A. No, I think both Nicole and I talked to Mr. Olson and I think we
possibly told him a little more than that, even though I don't think
we went into any long detail about it.

Q. You also told Mr. Olson that the only reason charges were being
filed is because an assistant district attorney who was involved was
president of some association dealing with domestic violence and they
were using you as a scapegoat to highlight the problem, true?

A. I still believe that, yes.

Q. And that's what you told Mr. Olson, right?

A. I think that was true.

Q. That's what you told him, right?

A. Yes.

I know that's true, as a matter of fact.

Q. By the way, you also told your good friend and business colleague
back east in New York, Louis Mark, the same thing, right?

A. I'm sure I -- after it became public, both Nicole and I spoke to
both of those individuals.

Q. And you told them basically there was -- it was a little shoving
incident?

A. I don't know what Nicole told them because she talked to them
outside of my presence.

Q. You told them just a little shoving incident, right?

A. Yeah, I told them we had an altercation.

Q. No, you didn't say altercation. You told him that you just shoved
her out of the room when she broke a lamp, and this's all you said,
right?

A. I don't know -- I just told them that we had an altercation and
there was a problem with LAPD from it, and I just felt that they were
people that I was in business with and they should know once Nicole
and I realized the media was going to write about it.

Q. Bottom line, you didn't tell them the truth, right?

A. Bottom line, I don't --

Q. Yes or no?

A. I think I told them the truth. I didn't tell them in detail but I
thought I was very honest with them.

Q. Now, this wasn't the only time that there was a physical
altercation in your relationship as you indicated, correct?

A. Like this, yes, it was.

Q. There was a time when you hit Nicole on the side, and she ran to
the home of your very close friend in Los Angeles, a man named Wayne
Hughes, right?

A. No.

Q. And she showed Mr. Hughes the bruises and Mr. Hughes came running
to your house in his car looking for you and you were gone, true?

A. I don't recall this at all.

Q. You deny that?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

A. I don't deny what Nicole and Wayne may have done. I don't recall it
at all.

Q. But you deny striking her and causing a bruise on her side?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. There was another incident in the 80's when you and Nicole
used to take your Chows to a veterinarian, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And --

MR. BAKER: I'll object on remoteness.

THE COURT: When was this, Mr. Petrocelli?

MR. PETROCELLI: It was in the early 80's, Your Honor.

I don't think any of these are remote under People versus Zack.

THE COURT: Okay. Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you had an altercation with Nicole in the
parking lot when you slapped her in the face and knocked her glasses
off to the ground, true?

A. No.

Q. And there was another incident in about 1986 or 1987 out near your
place in Laguna out on Victoria?

A. No. I don't have a place in Laguna.

Q. You and Nicole frequented Laguna Beach from time to time?

A. Yes, we lived there from time to time.

Q. There was a time on the sand when you and she got into an argument
and you slapped her and she fell down to her knees?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. Then there was an incident in the late 80's when you were up there,
you were having an argument with Nicole in the back of the limousine
and you struck her in the back of the limousine?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. Speaking of Wayne Hughes, didn't you tell Wayne Hughes after the
1989 incident you caught too much of a backhand in hitting Nicole?

A. I don't believe so, no.

Q. Now --

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, this be a good time?

THE COURT: Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinions.

10 minutes.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Proceed.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) In the fall of 1984, there was an incident in
which you broke Nicole's windshield with a baseball bat. Do you recall
that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And you and Nicole had had an argument, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole was extremely upset and crying after you broke the base
-- broke her windshield with the bat, right?

A. Upset. Not crying, no.

Q. And she then called the Westec folks and they came out to the
incident, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you were in a state of rage and you took a baseball bat
and you smashed her windshield, right?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. You testified at your deposition that all you did is you were
bouncing the baseball bat against the tire, having an ordinary kind of
conversation with Nicole, right?

MR. BAKER: I object to this, Your Honor. If he's going to use the
deposition he can use page and line numbers.

MR. PETROCELLI: Not necessary.

MR. BAKER: Not request my client to remember 11 days of deposition.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You testified at your deposition that all you
were doing was sitting there talking to Nicole and you're taking the
nub of the baseball bat, and just bouncing it against the rubber tire
when a couple times it hit the hub cap.

Do you remember that testimony?

A. I remember that portion of it. Not quite how you characterize it.

Q. And Nicole said to you, don't hit the car with the bat?

A. No, she --

Q. Remember that?

A. She moved my leg and looked at the hub cap and said, you're hitting
the hub cap, you're going to pay for that.

Q. Yeah, and then your response was, bam, I'll pay for that too,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then, you remember testifying that she went in, she pressed a
button for Westec, came back out and the two of you just finished
talking, you both went in the house?

A. Yes.

Q. And nothing was the matter, and you were surprised to see Westec
even show up, let alone the LA Police Department, correct?

A. I think I was surprised to see LA Police Department. When Westec
came, I don't know if that was a surprise, but I didn't expect it, I
didn't know she had done that.

Q. So you -- in your description of this incident, Nicole was not in
fear of you at that point in time, correct?

A. Definitely not.

Q. It was no big deal, right?

A. Well, I broke her windshield, but no big deal, no.

Q. After the incident, your marriage came to an end a couple of years
later, right?

A. Three and a half years later, yes.

Q. January 6, 1992, you and Nicole split up, right?

A. Yes. She asked for a separation at that point.

Q. And you were extremely unhappy about losing your wife then?

A. Very much so, yes.

Q. And you were hurt very badly, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you, for several months in fact, tried to convince her to stay
in the relationship, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And then at some point, I guess May or so, you met a woman named
Paula Barbieri and you began dating her and getting on with the rest
of your life, right?

A. I -- yeah, but I began getting along with the rest of my life after
Nicole told me she had found a guy she was interested in.

Q. Between January and May of 1992, which is the -- this was the
period when you were attempting to resist a divorce, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And during that period of time, sir, you were going over to
Nicole's -- withdrawn.

By this time Nicole had moved out of Rockingham into a rented
condominium on Gretna Green, right?

A. In February, she found another place to move to.

Q. 325 South Gretna Green?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. She took your two children, Sydney and Justin, with her to live
there, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you would go over there from time to time uninvited, right?

A. Yes. Yes, both ways, she'd come to my house, I'd go to her house.

Q. We're only talking about you right now. You would go to her house
uninvited?

A. Yes.

Q. And you would call Nicole's mother, Juditha, incessantly to talk
about Nicole, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Virtually every day, numerous times a day, trying to talk
about Nicole and getting your wife back, true?

A. Often we didn't talk about Nicole but most of the time it was about
Nicole, and Judy was -- she was like a shrink for me. I called her all
the time. Okay.

Q. And you also would call Nicole's house sitter, a woman named
Giaconda Redfern, and talk to her about Nicole, right?

A. I don't know who she is.

Q. You would call Nicole's house sitter to find out where Nicole was,
right?

A. If I was out of town and I was calling like, for Nicole and the
kids and they weren't around, I'd ask where they were.

I don't know Giaconda Redfern.

Q. You were checking up on her pretty frequently?

A. No, I think --

Q. Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. Okay. Now, there came a time when in April of 1992, you went out to
a restaurant called Trieste, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you saw Nicole there with a man named Keith, right?

A. I believe Keith was there. She was with about ten people.

Q. This is the first time you had ever seen Nicole, in a restaurant,
in the company of another man, not you, right?

A. No.

Q. And it was obvious to you that Nicole was with this person and not
there with you, right?

A. No, I had met Keith. And she went out with a bunch of her friends,
and I assumed he was just a friend of hers like all the other people
that were there.

Q. You were not Nicole's date that night?

A. No.

Q. And you were not invited to be there with Nicole and the party,
right?

A. Or them with me and my party, no.

Q. Now, after you left the restaurant that night, about 11 o'clock or
so you went over to Nicole's condominium, uninvited and unannounced,
true?

A. Yes.

Q. And as you walked up the path to the house, you looked through the
window, and you saw Nicole engaged in a sexual act with this man,
Keith, right?

A. As I approached her front door, the window was there, and I saw her
head, and I looked and saw that she was engaged with somebody.

Q. And you watched long enough to see what was going on, right?

A. I'd say ten seconds. I was a little stunned when I saw it, yes.

Q. And that left an indelible impression in your mind, true, sir?

A. I don't know what an indelible impression is.

I was pretty stunned.

Q. Lasting impression, right?

A. I was pretty stunned. I mean it's not a picture that I carry around
with me.

Q. Something that was hard for you to forget, right, is that a fair
statement?

A. I sometimes still remember, yes.

Q. Now, after that incident, you met this Paula, and the two of you,
you and Paula that is, began a monogamous relationship of your own
with her, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And by this time, you're pretty much over trying to talk Nicole
into the relationship, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your divorce was final in October of 1992, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. Now, there came a time I guess several months later, into
early 1993, when Nicole started pursuing you again, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Or were you pursuing her?

A. No, she was incessively (sic) pursuing me.

Q. Excuse me?

A. Incessively.

Q. Incessantly?

A. Yes.

She'd show up where I -- wherever I was. She showed up at the golf
course where I was, she followed me to Mexico, she made me cookies and
occasionally -- she called my home and my office incessantly.

Q. Kind of what you were doing to her between January and May of 1992,
true?

A. I think that's false. I don't think I showed up anyplace other than
her home where she was.

Q. Okay.

A. Yeah.

Q. Now, are you sure you were not pursuing her this time?

A. No. I think everyone, including our family, knows it was her
pursuing me.

Q. You sure about that?

A. I think everybody knows that.

Q. I'm just asking if you're sure?

A. I'm a thousand percent sure.

Q. How many percent?

A. A thousand percent sure.

Q. Thank you. That answers my question.

Now, Nicole was sending you letters and tapes and cookies and trying
to get you back, right?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can I see the letter, Steve.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) She wrote you a letter --

MR. PETROCELLI: 1161. Let me see it first. Just hand it to me, if you
would please.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

(The instrument herein referred to as a five-page letter from Nicole
Brown Simpson to O.J. Simpson was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 1161.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, by this time, we're into what, Mr.
Simpson, March, April, 1993, thereabouts?

A. Yes.

Q. Divorce is final. You're in your life with Paula, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And there isn't any romantic involvement at all with Nicole, right?

A. I hadn't even spoken to Nicole since two days after Christmas. I
think I saw her for a minute on the 1st of February, and until she
showed up at my house, I don't think I even had spoken a word to her
other than maybe if I called and asked to speak to the kids.

Q. And the basic interaction, if any, you had, had to do only with the
children, right?

A. Yes. I -- as a matter of fact, I know other than that one day I
didn't even see Nicole for about two and a half, three months, and
then I wasn't returning her calls when she would call to my office and
stuff.

Q. And then the pursuing started, right?

A. I think it's a little confusing here.

She was sending things over and calls and I wasn't responding.

Q. Why were you not responding?

A. Because I didn't want to deal with any of her problems. I told her
if it was about the kids, just let me know. My housekeeper and my
secretary told her. And I think I sent her a note or something that
Nicole, I don't want to get into any of your problems. Because I had
to deal with a lot of her problems and -- after we had -- after May of
'92, and I tried to help her as best I can, but I was in my own
relationship and I didn't want to deal with any of hers and I -- I
just, you know, I just didn't want to deal with anything outside of
the children.

Q. Okay. And at some point you got a letter from her, right?

A. Well, she showed up at my house one day, yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Was it 1161?

MR. GELBLUM: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) The dear O.J. letter. You see that?

A. Yes.

Q. And at the end -- well, let me ask you this: First of all, this is
a letter from Nicole to you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is the letter that you received sometime in the spring of
1993?

A. It appears to be, yes.

Q. And this is Nicole's handwriting, right?

A. It appears to be.

Q. You don't have any doubt about that, right?

A. It appears to be, yes.

Q. You have any doubt?

A. No.

Q. Okay. At the end it says, I love you forever and always, Me, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And basically what she was saying to you is O.J., I want to come
home, right?

A. Well, she told -- the day she gave me the letter -- well, basically
that's what the letter says, yes.

Q. I want to come home, right?

A. I don't know -- yes.

Q. And as a result of these beseechings by Nicole, you decided to get
back with her, right?

A. No.

Q. At some point you told Paula Barbieri that you were going to end
your relationship with her and you were going to get back with Nicole,
right?

A. Roughly -- probably two months, possibly a little more after she
showed up with this letter, yes.

Q. Around Mothers Day, 1993, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Then you left Paula for Nicole, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you broke Paula's heart?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you and Nicole began what we -- what you called the
reconciliation period, right?

A. I gave her a year. I gave it a year.

Q. You gave her a year?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that what you are saying?

A. Yes, that's part of.

Q. You gave her a year to do what, sir?

A. I gave her -- I said I would give it a year. She had a concern at
one point that if we argued, that I would just stop, and I said okay,
I'll give it a year.

I told her a few other things about one particular friend of hers I
wouldn't socialize with and I don't -- and one or two other little
things.

Q. Before you said you'd give her a year. Was that a slip?

A. No, that -- that's how I felt, I'll give it a year, I'll work as
hard as I can for a year, and if it works in a year we'll remarry, if
it didn't work in a year, it wouldn't work.

Q. So from about March -- excuse me, May of 1993, for the next year --

A. Virtually to the day.

Q. We'll talk about to the day.

A. Yeah.

Q. Let's just say to the year.

A. Yes.

Q. Roughly, okay?

A. Yes.

Q. You and Nicole had a monogamous relationship, right?

A. I don't know how monogamous it was, no.

Q. Was it monogamous on your part?

A. When we were dating it was monogamous. You have to understand, I
lived in New York, she lived here. I -- she never asked me what I was
doing, I never asked her what she was doing.

Q. The ground rules were you would date each other exclusively, not
move in, and try to see if you could put your marriage back together,
and if it worked within a year, then she would move back to Rockingham
and the two of you would get remarried and be a family again, is that
a fair description of the arrangement?

MR. BAKER: Objection, compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I think the ground rules were we'd work together on the
relationship.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Sir, could you answer my question, please?

A. You asked a question -- you asked a lot of things that were in that
question, sir.

Q. Was that a fair --

A. Basically, basically, but I -- she went out when she wasn't with me
and I went out when I wasn't with her, so...

Q. Excuse me?

A. Yes.

Q. Was that a fair description of the arrangements you had?

A. I think it was close.

Q. Okay. Are you saying now that you did not have an arrangement with
her where you would be exclusive to her. You would be monogamous to
her during the period that you and she were attempting to reconcile?

A. I think we wanted to be. But she wasn't and I wasn't, so --

Q. But you had an agreement with her that you would be, true?

A. I don't think we talked about it. I don't think it was a specific
conversation we had. I think when we said we'd work together, it may
have been an implied thing there that we would be monogamous with one
another, but I think it was pretty -- I think it was certainly implied
when we -- when we sat and talked about it.

Q. So the answer to my question is you did not have a verbal agreement
with Nicole that the two of you would be exclusive -- exclusive; is
that correct?

A. I think it was implied, yes.

Q. Did you tell her -- did she tell you we will not date other people
in the time that we are attempting to reconcile?

A. I don't recall --

Q. Yes or no?

A. -- recall having that specific conversation, having -- saying that.
I think it was certainly implied when we got back together.

Q. You had no verbal conversation that you and she would do such a
thing, correct?

A. I believe it was implied when we said we're going to work to get
back together again.

Q. Are you saying it was said or not said? Can you just answer the
question?

A. I'm saying that I believe it was implied when we said we were going
to work with one another to get back together.

Q. Okay.

A. I know neither one of us was monogamous during this period of time.

Q. I'm not asking you that. I'm asking you what the deal was, okay.

Now, you said the closest that you came and she came to expressing
that deal is that you would work together, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And nothing more was said on the subject of dating other
people, right?

A. I think it was implied that we wouldn't date other people.

Q. Nothing else was said, right?

A. I believe it was implied. I don't remember the specific
conversation but I believe it was certainly implied by both of us that
we wouldn't date other people.

Q. Now, that reconciliation period didn't go too well, did it?

A. I would say it went -- with the exception of two or three months,
mainly because I kind of felt I wanted out, I would say it went pretty
good. It didn't work in the end. I thought it went pretty good.

Q. The last six months of the year were not very good, were they?

A. I would say January, February, March were great, and from March on,
they weren't.

Q. Okay. And you continued to have arguments with Nicole as you had
throughout the course of your relationship, right?

A. Yes, we had a few arguments, yes.

Q. And a couple of things happened that year that upset you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And one thing that happened in particular was that there was an
article that came out in the National Enquirer in the fall of 1993 in
which it was reported that you -- that you had begged Nicole to get
back into the relationship, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that really upset you?

A. Yes, it certainly did.

Q. And it upset you because it was false, right?

A. Exactly. That's why it upset me.

Q. She begged, you did not beg her?

A. Exactly right.

Q. You got upset with her because you thought Nicole was responsible
for telling the reporters or her circle of friends told the reporters
this falsehood, right?

A. That one or two of her friends had, yes, because there were some
things in there that I thought were a little on the money and I felt
that the only reason the National Enquirer would have known it was if
one of her friends had gone to it with it, and it really, really upset
me.

Q. It upset you because you didn't want to want America to think that
you were begging another woman, correct?

A. I didn't want an inaccurate thing to be written in the paper, and I
didn't think it was right that one of her friends would go to a
tabloid and make any characterizations about anything that was going
on between Nicole and I.

Q. You were a public figure at that time, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were very concerned about what the public thinks of you,
true?

A. In this instance I would say no. In this instance I was upset that
someone who purported to be a friend of hers would take --

Q. Could you please answer my question yes or no.

MR. BAKER: He's trying to answer the question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) No, you're not answering.

THE COURT: Overruled. He's answered.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please answer the question.

A. Would you reask it, please.

Q. You were upset that the country was reading that you had begged a
woman to -- to get back into the relationship?

A. In this instance, no.

Q. Okay. Now, in October of 1993, there was another very severe
episode with Nicole, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You hesitated. Not sure that it was severe?

A. Yes. It was severe. Severe -- I mean you -- it certainly wasn't
severe in terms of '89, which I truly thought was severe. I didn't
think the '93 incident was nearly -- in the realm of the '89 incident.

Q. Now, the entire time that you were -- this is October 25, 1993?

A. Yes.

Q. The entire time that you were arguing with Nicole that night, there
was another person there on the premises, right?

A. I would say most of my argument when the other person was on the
premises was me venting to him because Nicole was upstairs.

Q. And that person is Kato Kaelin?

A. Kato Kaelin.

Q. Okay. Now, what happened that evening, sir? You were at Nicole's
house, and you got into an argument with her because you saw a picture
of this guy, Keith?

A. That's absolutely wrong. I mean that became a part of the argument
once it began. But that's absolutely wrong.

Q. Excuse me. You can just answer yes or no.

A. No.

Q. You got into an argument with Nicole because you saw some photos
that upset you, right?

A. That became a part of the argument after the argument began.

Q. Okay.

A. Yes.

Q. And you then left the condominium because you were upset, right?

A. Not -- no, that's not correct. I think I left -- when I left there
hadn't been an argument. I left because I didn't want to argue.

Q. You were upset and you left, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were upset and you didn't want to get into an argument,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is at night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you drove the short distance to Rockingham, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And then you called Nicole, right?

A. No, I called her back. She called me. I was on the phone, and I
returned her call.

Q. And the two of you argued on the phone now, right?

A. Yes, on the -- I don't know if we argued. She made a point to me
that I said I wouldn't -- I wouldn't leave if there was something to
talk about, we would argue it out. So essentially it was her saying to
me I wasn't doing what I said I would do.

Q. And she hung up on you?

A. She may have hung up, yes.

Q. And you called her back and she hung up on you again?

A. I don't think so. I may have called as I was coming over and her
phone was -- either it was busy or off the hook.

Q. And then at some point you called back, and the phone was busy, and
you could not get through as though it had been put off the line,
true?

MR. BAKER: Objection.

THE WITNESS: I don't think so.

MR. BAKER: Objection.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: And --

THE COURT: Just a minute.

Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay. At some point while you were dealing with
Nicole you tried to call her and could not get through, you got a busy
signal, true?

A. Yes, I was -- yes.

Q. And when you were unable to get through, you jumped in your car,
your Bronco, your white Bronco, and you high-tailed it over to
Nicole's; is that right?

A. My knees were such that I couldn't jump anywhere.

Q. Okay.

A. I drove over because I thought she made a valid point, I shouldn't
have left, I should have stayed and talked it out.

Q. You got in your car and you went over to Nicole's, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you parked the car not against the curb but sort of just in
front of the house, right?

A. In front of her car, yes.

Q. And you left your lights on, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you went inside and you kicked the door, true?

A. Well, there was a lot that happened in between that and the portion
that you're talking about, but essentially, eventually I kicked the
door, yes.

Q. You kicked the door to get inside right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you broke the door, right?

A. Not the glass. It was a glass door. But I -- part of the door was
-- had been previously cracked and when I -- as she closed it, I
kicked it and I think a piece came off it, yes.

Q. And fair to say that you were enraged when you kicked that door
down, right?

A. I was pretty upset, yes.

Q. And fair to say that Nicole was extremely upset, right?

A. She was pretty upset, yes.

Q. And fair to say that Nicole expressed to you great fear, fear of
you, correct?

A. Not at all, not at any time that night did she express any fear to
me.

Q. You heard that 911 tape, sir, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. You heard Nicole say he's going to beat the shit out of me --

A. Yes.

Q. -- did you not?

You understood that she was afraid of you when she said that?

A. No, because she was not talking to me the way she was talking on
the phone. And before she got off the phone, she came back down into
the room that I was at, which indicated to me, even today, that she
obviously wasn't afraid. If she thought I was doing something, she
would have stayed in the room.

Q. So you think she just lied to the 911 operator?

A. Yes, I think -- I think she was trying to control --

Q. You just answered my question.

A. Yes.

Q. And you've heard this other tape that you called the surreptitious
tape?

A. Yes, I did.

Q. And you heard Nicole being asked, are you afraid of him harming
you? She said I got scared. Scared of him physically harming you? And
she answered yes.

You heard that, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you think that was a lie also, right?

A. Well, I knew it was because she came into the room that I was in --

Q. Excuse me. Yes or no?

A. I think that was a lie, yes.

Q. And you heard on that tape Nicole say I got frightened tonight.
When he gets this crazed, I get scared . . . hit me. He does not look
like himself, he gets a very animal look in him, his veins pop out and
his eyes get black. It was more precaution thank anything. I just
always believed if it happened once more it would be the last time.

You remember hearing Nicole say those things?

A. No. I read that in your transcript.

Q. You've read that before today, haven't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And it is true, sir, that Nicole expressed to you in the course of
your relationship, her fear of you when you got mad and angry and
enraged, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And it's true, sir, that when you did get mad and angry, that you
would acquire a very animal like look, correct?

A. Yeah -- I never -- I can never recall being mad and looking in a
mirror.

Q. Well, Nicole told you I'm afraid when you look like that, right?

A. No, she told me when you get mad -- you really scare me when you
get mad. She told me that actually the next day from this incident.

Q. Oh, that was the first time she ever told you that, is that your
testimony, sir?

A. She may have said before that she hates it when I get mad, yes.

Q. And you knew she was frightened that night?

A. Not that night. I will debate forever that she was not frightened
of me that night.

Q. Debate with whom?

A. With whoever wants to debate it. I don't think her actions, besides
the phone call, said she was afraid, she came down into a room that I
was in, after she told the police she was afraid. I was standing
there. I can't imagine a person who would be afraid would come down
into the room that the person's afraid of is in.

Q. You think this is a debate, sir?

A. Pardon me?

Q. You think this is a debate?

A. No.

Q. Now, the police officers who showed up there that evening, the Los
Angeles police officers, they told you that because of your celebrity
status they wanted to keep this as small as possible, right?

A. I believe one of the guys said that, yes.

Q. They treated you fairly, didn't they?

A. Other than surreptitiously taping me and using it for their
personal use, outside of that, I thought it was, you know, how they
handled it, then I thought they defused the situation, yes.

Q. You weren't arrested, were you?

A. No.

Q. And by the way, in 1989 when the police came and confronted you
ran, didn't you?

A. No.

Q. You took off, right?

A. I left at a certain point and went to another friend's house, yes.

Q. And you knew the police were waiting for you, right?

A. No.

Q. You thought they had gone?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. So you didn't have any idea that the Police Department had
told you that they wanted to take you in?

A. They never told me that.

Q. So you just felt you were free to go, right?

A. No. I felt it was wise that I leave. I was advised by my daughter
and the housekeeper, you know, you're -- you're -- O.J., you can't be
getting into a fight with this phrase that they used to describe this
detective -- Officer Edward, and I just left.

Q. Now, when you left, sir, the police were still on your property,
right?

A. No, they were never as far as I know -- I think Mr. Edwards may
have walked on originally. After that they were never on my property.

Q. But what I mean by that they were still there waiting outside the
gates, right?

A. I don't know, I couldn't see on the Ashford side.

Q. You couldn't see because they were on Ashford and you went out
Rockingham, right?

A. Yes, that's my exit from my property.

Q. You can't see Ashford from Rockingham, correct?

A. I couldn't see where they were.

Q. All right. And they were right outside the Ashford gate, weren't
they?

A. They weren't where the gate was. But I have a wall on that side so
if they were there, they would have been out of my vision, behind the
wall.

Q. And it was dark out, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. But you knew they were there when you left.

A. I suspected they were there, yes.

Q. And you knew Nicole was in the car, right?

A. I assumed she was this -- the car, yes.

Q. And by the way, you asked your loyal servant, Michelle, to go get
Nicole out of the car?

MR. BAKER: I object to that characterization.

Q. Did you tell Michelle to go get Nicole out of the car and bring her
in?

A. I think Michelle did that on her own initiative.

Q. You didn't have anything to do with that?

A. I don't know. We were all there.

Q. Did you tell Michelle to go get Nicole, get her out of police car,
and get her inside, yes or no?

A. I don't recall.

Q. You don't recall?

A. No.

Q. You said you remember everything you did that night?

A. Most things I do remember.

Q. But you don't remember that?

A. I don't remember specifically --

Q. Okay.

A. -- what --

Q. Okay.

A. -- were being said then, no.

Q. Okay. Now, after this 1993 incident, you continued to see Nicole,
correct, the October 1993 incident?

A. Yes.

Q. By the way, there was an incident the Christmas you went to the
home of the -- the Jenners, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You went with?

A. Christmas Eve.

Q. Christmas Eve. You went with Nicole, your two children, and Kato
Kaelin, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You drove over there and you went inside the Jenner home, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then, at some point in time you saw this guy there named
Joseph, who you believed Nicole had dated when you and she were
separated, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that upset you so much that you just got up and took off and
the whole family left, correct?

A. Absolutely wrong.

Q. And there was a big argument in the car on the way home, true?

A. No. There were some words between me and her that went for about a
minute, and we went home and we had our Thanksgiving -- I mean
Christmas meal, opened gifts, Nicole stayed with me that night, and
everything was fine.

Q. Seeing Joseph there upset you and causes you -- caused you to
leave, correct?

A. Not at all.

Q. Now, let's turn to the 1994 time frame, sir.

In March of -- end of March, Nicole and you went off to Cabo San
Lucas, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your children were there also?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole had some friend there and their children as well, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your reconciliation now, is like 10 months in progress or so?

A. Yes, approximately.

Q. And as you said earlier, things were going pretty good in your
mind, at this point in time, right?

A. At this point in time, I think for the first time I felt that there
was a chance this was going to work.

Q. And you had a great time in Cabo with Nicole on April 1, 2 and 3 of
1994, true?

A. A super time, yes.

Q. And after that -- that short vacation, you came back to Los Angeles
to get ready to go to Puerto Rico?

A. No. I came back to work. I had to leave on Easter Sunday because I
had to start the day -- the next day on the job, and Nicole and the
rest of the people stayed in the house that I rented down there.

Q. Well, you got to Puerto Rico sometime in early April, right?

A. Yeah, eventually I went to Puerto Rico, yes.

Q. This was to film your movie "Frogman," right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you said you started to work in Los Angeles initially on the
movie?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Now, after the Cabo trip and while you were working on
Frogman in LA, then in Puerto Rico, after this wonderful trip you had
with Nicole, you're thinking things may work out for the first time,
all of the sudden you got kind of a cold shoulder from Nicole, true?

A. I don't -- I don't understand what you're saying.

Q. You don't understand what I mean?

A. No.

Q. Didn't you start calling Nicole from Puerto Rico and you weren't
getting your phone calls returned, sir?

A. No. I called one day and she was great and I called the next day
and she was weird, and I called the next day or she would call me and
she was great and the next day she was strange.

Q. So you thought Nicole was acting very erratically?

A. Possibly more so than I'd ever known her to be in my life.

Q. And you started calling up Nicole's friends, Cora Fischman, Ron
Fischman, Faye Resnick, and saying what's wrong with Nicole, right?

A. Yeah. I think -- I don't know if I talked to Cora because Nicole
had -- had said that actually -- essentially that Cora was the cause
of her erratic behavior.

Q. Can you just stay with the answer --

A. No.

Q. -- to my question?

A. The answer would be no, not as you said it.

Q. You started talking to Nicole's friends, and even Nicole's mom
about why is Nicole not responding to you as she had been in Cabo; is
that a fair statement, sir?

A. No. I think you mischaracterized.

Q. Please answer.

A. No, you mischaracterized.

Q. Please answer yes or no?

A. No.

Q. Thank you. And you were pretty upset that having thought things
were going to work out now, things didn't look so good, right?

A. I -- I wanted out, yes.

Q. And you came back into Los Angeles filming Frogman in Puerto Rico
around what May 1, thereabouts?

A. Roughly.

Q. Roughly?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you and Nicole were having sort of a difficult time the
first week or so of May, right?

A. I was, she wasn't. She had -- she had said she loved me, and she
was sorry about the way she acted and she picked me up at the airport,
but I, at that point, wanted out.

Q. And you decided to go and visit the family on Mother's Day at the
Brown house, correct?

A. Well, I mean it was -- it was Mother's Day. That's where we were
spending Mother's Day.

Q. You worked very late and into the evening Friday, and you drove all
the way down there?

A. Yes.

Q. And got in sort of the middle of the morning, right?

A. I got in about 5:30, 6 in the morning.

Q. And you and Nicole had a planned date to go out on Saturday night
and Judy and Lou would take care of the children and so forth?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when you got to the house on Saturday you and Nicole had a
place down there, right?

A. Yeah, I had a place down there, yes.

Q. And Nicole didn't want to go out, right?

A. Well, she wanted to go out, she got dressed, but when she got to
the door she went into something I've never seen, she started shaking
and she -- her words was, look at me, I'm having a nervous breakdown.

Q. And you got kind of angry at her, didn't you?

A. I got --

Q. True?

A. I think more concerned than angry.

Q. Did you get angry, sir?

A. I got more concerned than angry.

Q. I didn't ask you about concerned.

A. There was an element, yeah, I was.

Q. There was?

A. Yeah.

Q. Some anger there?

A. There was some anger there.

Q. Okay. And the two of you argued, right?

A. No, we did not argue.

Q. And Nicole didn't want to go out, right?

A. She said, look at me, how can I go out like this.

Q. Isn't it true that you had a little altercation with her that
night?

A. No.

Q. Got on the bed and sort of held her shoulders down?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. You deny that, don't you?

A. No, when she was shaking, I was hugging her and said, Nicole,
what's the matter? She couldn't explain what was wrong and why she was
feeling the way she was feeling, she just couldn't explain it.

Q. Ultimately you got out to dinner that night?

A. Yes, yes, we did.

Q. Then the next day, you had Mother's Day, correct, at the Browns?

A. Yeah, it was pretty surprising because the next day everything was
fine.

Q. And after Mother's Day, you and Nicole continued to sort of try to
make this thing work, right?

A. Absolutely wrong.

Q. You had nothing to do with her after Mother's Day, is that your
testimony?

A. That's not correct, but it's absolutely wrong that we continued to
work on the relationship. It ended either that night -- I'm not sure,
or the next night it ended, and I immediately -- immediately started
publicly dating Paula again.

Q. Now, it's your testimony, sir, that you broke off this relationship
on May 10, correct?

A. Yeah, I instigated it but when we sat and talked about it, we both
agreed.

Q. Okay. And it's not -- it's -- withdrawn.

Isn't it true, sir, that Nicole ended this relationship with you on
May 22, 1994, not May 10, not at your instigation but at her
instigation; isn't that true?

A. Absolutely wrong.

Q. Isn't it true that on May 22 you went to Nicole's condominium that
night on Bundy, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And the two of you talked about your relationship, correct?

A. Yeah, we talked about a lot of things, yes.

Q. And you, on the 19th of May, you had just given Nicole an expensive
birthday present three days earlier, correct?

A. Expensive is a relative term, but, yeah, I gave her a couple
presents.

Q. Five or six grand, whatever, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Some kind of emerald bracelet?

A. Yes.

Q. And she took it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And three days later on the 22 of May, three days after you gave
her this expensive gift, Nicole returned it to you that night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you then asked for the earrings you had just gotten for her,
right?

A. I think the earrings -- I can't recall if I had talked about the
earrings, but I hadn't just gotten them for her. I think that came up
first.

Q. You asked for the earrings back?

A. I asked for the check back.

Q. Okay. And just so the jury understands, you had bought Nicole and
helped design some earrings a while ago and they were stolen and she
got insurance money, right?

A. She said they were stolen.

Q. Okay. You think --

A. You want me to explain this?

Q. Why don't you explain it. Go ahead, explain this.

A. She -- when we got back together there were some earrings I had
made for her previously, and she said she had lost them, they got
stolen, it really hurt her that she lost them. So at a previous -- I
don't recall if it was Valentine's Day or something like that, I went
to a jeweler and had the earrings remade, and it took him a while to
make them because a few times when they came back they weren't exactly
the way we wanted them. Eventually he got them made.

Unbeknownst to me, my office sent him (sic) a check. So when the
insurance check came for the earrings, $10,000, my office gave the
check to Nicole.

So at this point -- I mean I paid an additional 9 or 10,000 for the
earrings, I should have the insurance check. I should have one or the
other. The insurance check -- and she said she had spent the money
from the insurance check.

Q. Okay. So you --

A. Okay.

Q. So you said, hey, you can't have both of them, right?

A. No, I said where's the check. She said I don't have the check, so
here's the earrings.

Q. So bottom line though, Mr. Simpson, May 22, 1994, you're at 875
South Bundy with Nicole and she returns the earrings, or you ask for
them back, she returns the bracelet, and that was the official end of
your reconciliation with her, true?

A. That's absolutely wrong.

Q. And if Nicole wrote in her diary -- in her notes that "we
officially split up on that evening," you would say that that was
false, correct?

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object, Your Honor.

There was supposed to have been a hearing relative to that.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You may answer.

A. I think everyone who knew us then knew that that was false.

Q. Well, I'm not asking about everyone?

A. Well, it was false. It was absolutely false. I had started dating
Paula the day after Mother's Day -- or two days after Mother's Day,
with my kids, publicly.

Q. What do you mean publicly?

A. Publicly. We went to public places together, we were, you know,
seen together, some of her friends saw us together holding hands. I
mean it couldn't be any clearer than that.

Q. Now, you were still publicly or otherwise dating Paula, let's say
between Mother's Day and May 22, okay. Let's focus on that --

A. Yes.

Q. -- time period.

A. Yes.

Q. You were still extremely confused and frustrated and upset that
your relationship with Nicole was coming to an end --

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. Correct, sir?

A. I wasn't confused.

Q. Were you --

A. Upset, but I was -- it was a disappointment that we couldn't make
it work, but we were getting along so well. I thought it was for the
best.

Q. Now, were you upset that the relationship had ended yes or no?

A. Yes, I think after a year and 17 years, I wish --

Q. You can answer just yes or no, sir?

A. There was an element of being upset.

Q. Just an element?

A. Just an element, yes.

Q. And were you frustrated that it had come to an end, yes or no?

A. Absolutely not, no. I don't think it was a frustration. Yeah. I
think there was an element that the relationship had ended after
trying for a year, but I think among -- I was relieved and I think
among everyone who knew me, no one heard me complain and I -- I just
went on. I mean I was --

Q. So there was an element of being upset but no frustration; is that
what you're saying, yes or no?

A. Yes. I mean --

Q. Please answer the question yes or no.

A. Sorta. I can't answer the question yes or no.

Q. And you, in fact, were trying to win Nicole back during this
two-week period?

A. No.

Q. Correct?

A. Not at all.

Q. Are you trying to say to this jury that after all this time
together, you were able to, boom, cut the cord on May 10?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

A. Possibly as cleanly as anything could possibly --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So is this a yes?

A. Emotionally it was cut, yes.

Q. You did cut it, boom?

A. Yes.

Q. Just like that?

A. Yes.

Q. Over?

A. Yeah.

Q. Is that --

A. I mean I still cared about her, but yes, it was -- it was -- I had
no problem with seeing Paula and it had been public and, yes.

Q. And so as of May 10, you were able to emotionally, and otherwise,
immediately cut the cord with Nicole; is that what you were saying?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, this is asked and answered.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Yes or no?

MR. BAKER: Wait a minute. It's argumentative. I object to him saying
yes or no after every question.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: The witness can answer the question the way he sees fit.

MR. PETROCELLI: No speaking objections.

A. I can't answer that yes or no. I can't answer that yes or no.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

A. I can't.

Q. You can't.

A. I immediately cut any effort to reconcile with Nicole. I was happy
to move on, but I was still very, very much concerned about Nicole.

Q. Were you able to cut it off right then and there, yes or no?

A. Our relationship, yes. Cut off our relationship, yes.

Q. And your emotional attachment?

A. Emotionally I was still very -- you know, this is a woman I loved,
okay, I have always loved her, when we were apart we always said we
loved each other even when we weren't married.

Q. The answer was you were not able to emotionally cut the cord on May
10; is that true?

MR. BAKER: Objection, that's vague, ambiguous, to emotionally cut the
cord?

A. I still haven't --

THE COURT: Excuse me. Overruled.

You may answer.

A. I still haven't cut the cord with Marguerite emotionally and I've
not been married to her for 20 years.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I didn't ask about Marguerite. Can you answer
that question?

A. I would say I can't answer that question. Any answer I'd give would
be misleading.

Q. So there was -- you're not able to answer a straightforward
question?

A. I don't think it's a straightforward question.

MR. BAKER: I object.

Q. You cannot tell this jury one way or the other whether you cut or
didn't cut off your emotional attachment to Nicole as of May 10.

A. I could never cut off my emotional attachment to Nicole.

Q. Okay. So then from May 10, until the end of Nicole's life, you
still had an emotional attachment to Nicole, true?

A. Until this day I have an emotional attachment to Nicole.

Q. Thank you.

Now, four days after Nicole's -- after Mother's Day on May 10, you
with me?

A. I'm sorry?

Q. Four days after Mother's Day, May 14, you went off to New York,
right?

A. Yes, I -- that week I went to New York, yes.

Q. And May 14 was Sydney's Holy Communion, right?

A. Yes.

Q. A big family event?

A. Yes.

Q. And you missed it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had a big thing to attend that you couldn't get out of?

A. That's right, everything humanly possible to get out of --

Q. In fact --

A. They couldn't let me out.

Q. You tried?

A. I did everything a person could possibly do in business to get out
of it and couldn't.

Q. And Nicole was extremely upset with you that you had missed that
even though you had made every human effort to get out of it, right?

A. She didn't show me that, you know, so I never saw her being upset
with me for it.

Q. She never told you she was upset about that?

A. No. She asked me could I get out. When she told me about it, I was
-- it was sort of late, I was committed to what I was doing. And then
I called the people who were doing it, I called the chairman of the
board of Hertz, I did everything I could do to get out of this, you
know, important date that they had, and they -- they couldn't let me
out of it.

Q. Sir, it's your testimony to the jury that Nicole never expressed to
you her feelings that she was upset you couldn't be there; is that
correct?

A. She had told me previously that she wished I could be there. And I
told her the problems I was having getting out of the affairs. I said
I wish you had told me earlier so that I could have made some
preparations for this.

Q. And she told you she was upset and wanted you to stay?

A. She didn't say she was upset. She didn't use the word upset.

Q. You've answered the question.

A. Okay.

Q. Now, when you went back east to New York, you played golf on May 16
with a man named Frank Olson who was the President of Hertz, right?

A. Yeah, Chairman of Hertz.

Q. And played in New Jersey, right?

A. Yes.

Q. With Frank and a couple of other people, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And at that time, you told Frank Olson that you were very upset
about breaking up with Nicole, true?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Okay. You told Frank Olson that you were thinking about moving to
New York to get away from it all, true?

A. I already had a place in New York. I think I said I was going to
move to Florida to get away from it all, which had been my plan
previously, and my plan at this point in time.

Q. So at this point in time, with the relationship with Nicole having
come to an end, you were ready to move back east to get away from it
all, true?

A. Yes. For a certain time I was going to move previously but I didn't
move because Nicole, you know, wanted --

Q. Excuse me, sir, you don't have to --

A. Okay.

Q. -- keep answering.

A. I'm sorry.

Q. It'll move along a lot quicker.

Now, in fact, with Mr. Olson, you tried -- he kept trying to change
the subject and you kept coming back to talking about Nicole, true?

A. No. He kept talking about his problems with his wife. That's what
we were talking. We were sharing problems with -- with our
relationships.

Q. So it's untrue?

A. Yes, that's untrue.

Q. Okay. After you came back from that Hertz trip, Nicole, around her
birthday time, had taken ill, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Around middle of May, her birthday, May 19?

A. I got back from the trip.

Q. Is that true?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And Nicole was kind of bedridden, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you helped out a couple days by bringing over scones and coffee
and going to Rosti's and bringing Italian food over and those sorts of
things, right?

A. Yeah, I helped out.

Q. Okay.

A. I kind of tried to nurse her somewhat, yes.

Q. And during this period of time, May 19, is when she had her
birthday and you bought her an emerald bracelet and gave it to her,
together with a cigarette lighter, correct?

A. I gave it to her. I didn't buy it for her, but I gave it to her,
yes.

Q. Well, you bought this bracelet for her?

A. No.

Q. Did you not?

A. No.

Q. You told the LA Police detectives who interviewed you on June 13,
that you bought it for her, didn't you?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And certainly on June 13, only three weeks after May 19, that
is a lot closer time than today, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And in fact, you told the detectives who interviewed you,
Detectives Thomas Lange and Phil Vannatter, on June 13, that you kind
of were in a bad spot because you had bought the bracelet for Nicole,
given it to her, she returned it to you, and you gave it to Paula and
told Paula you had bought it for her, true?

A. That's true.

Q. Okay. And now you're telling us that all that's false, right; yes
or no?

A. It is false.

Q. Okay.

A. It's partially true. But if you what me to explain it's a very
simple explanation and I think you will understand if you give me the
opportunity to explain.

Q. I think I understand, sir.

A. Okay. All right.

Q. Now -- and by the way, your lawyers said something earlier in
talking about the accuracy of this tape recorded interview.

I just want to read from your deposition. Page 186, Mr. Baker.
(Reading.) Question: Line 7, this is referring to the tape recorded
interview that we had been discussing with the police? Answer: Yes.
Question: During the time they talked to you in the room they recorded
it, yes? Answer: During the time the recording was on, it appears to
me that from what I can recall recorded everything that we talked
about while the recording was on? Answer: Well, while the recording
was on.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So what you said in this statement you don't
quarrel with?

MR. BAKER: I object, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Correct?

MR. BAKER: I object. Just a minute.

MR. PETROCELLI: No speaking objections.

MR. BAKER: I'm not listening to you as my lawyer. I can tell you that.

MR. PETROCELLI: There isn't an objection.

MR. BAKER: He's talking about a recorded statement not --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

MR. BAKER: -- Not the transcript of that recorded statement.

THE COURT: Excuse me. Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You've read the transcript of the interview
that was recorded, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And what I just asked you about the bracelet was on the tape, and
was on the transcript, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Now, if can I have the May 22 entry.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I want to approach at this time.

THE COURT: You may.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench with reporter:)

MR. BAKER: Before we were supposed to have any comments about the
diaries we were supposed to have a 402 hearing. We've never had any
402 hearings about the diaries. He's already mentioned her writings
without any 402 hearing whatsoever. I objected, you overruled it, I
asked to approach, you declined my request. I again object to any of
her writings until there's a 402 hearing which has never occurred nor
been requested.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor, this was ruled on. I'm looking
for the transcript from the hearing. I marked pages this morning. In
limine they -- they tried to keep out, all of these. The Court's
statement, Your Honor, specifically ruled that Nicole's state of mind
was relevant to the issue of motive, and said that if there's any
particular pieces of evidence that needed to be reviewed on an
individual basis for purposes of 352 you would take a look at it,
okay. So you said in the hearing that --

MR. BAKER: Keep your voice down.

MR. PETROCELLI: Sorry. State of mind issue is relevant. Mr. Baker
opened that door wide open in his opening statement, talking about
Nicole's state of mind, going on and on about Simpson's relationship,
about how he was the confidante, about how it was Simpson who was
breaking up with Nicole and not the other way around, and the -- The
Nicole diaries are specifically relevant to prove the point of our
case here.

And she began making entries on May 22, and she made them through June
4 and she was dead days later, Your Honor. As you will see, we have
officially split up on May 22, 1994. This is her handwriting. And he's
been shown this, he authenticates this. He doesn't dispute certain
facts, he only wants to put his characterization on it. If she's not
available then her writings now speak for itself and the state of mind
exception applies.

MR. BAKER: It doesn't apply. This is pure hearsay. And we have to
have, it seems to me, a total 402. He cherry-picks. Half of these
things of her diaries don't even have the right dates on them. They
talk about Mr. Simpson being in her house when he's in New York. And
so the authenticity of these diary entries are definitely in issue.
And for him to do this without the 402 hearing that you requested
seems to me to be improper.

Now, I object to it under hearsay grounds as well as the 402 grounds.

MR. PETROCELLI: There was a motion in limine.

(Referring to transcript.)

MR. PETROCELLI: This is number 9 and it's number 10, okay. 19 back
here. Okay.

This is in reference to her out-of-court statements in police reports.
(READING:) The state of mind of the victim is relevant to show the
relationship with the defendant which would in turn support the
plaintiffs' contention that defendant had a motive to commit the
murder. Other statements may be admissible as spontaneous statements
and others under the new statute.

So you went state of mind spontaneous, and then statute. Then in
another position not related to police statements, number 10, to
preclude exactly this material reference to out-of-court statements
concerning defendants' conduct in relationship with Nicole Brown
Simpson, you ruled the statements have to be relevant to some issue in
the case if the relationship between the defendant and Nicole Brown
Simpson becomes an issue, and I assume it will. These statements may
well become relevant, the Court will, depending on the statements,
rule at the time that they are offered.

So it's right --

MR. BAKER: It's the specific motion relative to hearsay, avoiding the
specific motion relative --

MR. PETROCELLI: Here find it. I'm not trying to avoid anything.

In any event this is a two-page -- two-page document that she began on
May 22 and it directly bears on the relationship and her state of
mind. And he's sitting there putting his spin on everything, and we're
entitled to put this into evidence, Your Honor.

(Court motions to the clerk)

THE COURT: Court hails to clerk.

THE COURT: Can you bring me the two black binders.

THE CLERK: Yeah.

MR. PETROCELLI: There's -- they don't dispute the authenticity of this
handwriting. It's her handwriting.

(Pause)

MR. PETROCELLI: The critical issue here, Your Honor, is that there's a
buildup of intense anger and hostility between the parties which we
say proves the motive Mr. Simpson has denied, that --

THE COURT: Excuse me.

(Pause)

THE CLERK: There were three. You want the thick ones, right?

THE COURT: Yeah.

(The Clerk hands black binder notebooks to the Court.)

(Pause for the Court to read document.)

MR. PETROCELLI: You're talking about number 10, the motion I just
referred to.

MR. LEONARD: The diaries.

MR. PETROCELLI: You didn't limit it to diaries.

MR. GELBLUM: What are you looking for?

MR. PETROCELLI: There they are.

MR. GELBLUM: This one.

(Indicating to minute orders.)

THE COURT: What are you offering?

MR. PETROCELLI: First bring this up here.

(Indicating to document with Nicole Brown Simpson's writing.)

THE COURT: And what else are you offering?

MR. PETROCELLI: Basically the whole document. It's two pages.

You want to take it out, Your Honor?

(Counsel removes document from plastic covering.)

(Court reviews documents.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Under new hearsay statute applies to the 6 paragraph
to 6, 3 --

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, they went up to Sacramento and Fred Goldman
testified to get a statute passed, to get a statute passed for this.
This doesn't meet the criteria for that statute and this is hearsay
and it's inadmissible hearsay. Her state of mind isn't relative to
this issue.

THE COURT: I think it is. Overruled.

(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When we last broke we were talking about the --
being with Nicole on May 22, and getting the bracelet, and asking for
the earrings back, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

A. Not asking for the earrings, she just gave the earrings back, yes.

Q. For a little background, sir -- sir, on May 22 you hosted an event
-- excuse me, I'm sorry.

You hosted an event at your house for Justin's Sunshine School, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And the families of the children all came over to the house and
Nicole was there, right?

A. Yeah, Nicole showed up at some point.

Q. And she still wasn't feeling all that well, right?

A. I don't think so.

Q. Now -- and she left to go back to Bundy, the child -- the children
were still at the house with you, and the party was still going on,
right, or the picnic, I should say?

A. Yes. I think I asked her maybe she should go home and -- and, yes.

Q. And then, after the picnic ended, you then took Sydney and Justin
over to Bundy and had your conversation with Nicole, that we've
discussed, in which the earrings and the emerald bracelet were given
to you, correct?

A. I believe so. I believe so. I -- I'm not sure if Sydney and Justin
didn't spend the night with me, and I just went over to Nicole's,
whether she called me that evening.

Q. And when you left the house that night, there was absolutely no
question that you and Nicole had discussed that this would be the
official split and end to your relationship, correct?

A. No, that's not correct.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: What's the exhibit number?

MR. FOSTER: 735.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me show you notes Nicole made shortly
before her death.

(Refers to Exhibit 735.)

(The instrument herein described as notes written by Nicole Brown
Simpson were marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit 735.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You recognize Nicole's handwriting, do you not,
sir?

A. Yes.

Q. There's no doubt in your mind, right?

A. You know, I honestly couldn't tell you I would recognize her
handwriting, but --

Q. I showed --

A. I'm not doubting that this is her note.

Q. I showed you the letter she wrote to you just a year earlier, you
had no -- no trouble recognizing that letter, right? Same --

A. I think my attitude was pretty much the same. I assume it's
Nicole's handwriting.

Q. Okay. Sunday, May 22, I'm sorry. Can you folks see.

JURORS: (Nod) Um-hum.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

Sunday, May 22, 1994, we've officially split.

Q. Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. And it said -- it goes on to talk about an arrangement that you and
she then discussed for dealing with the children, right?

A. I think we may have discussed that, yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

I told O.J. we're going back to every other weekend. I need the rest
and O.J.'s gone so much he needs the alone time with them till he
leaves again. He's been gone the last four weekends so I've asked if
we can start with him this weekend of May 28.

Q. Correct?

A. I believe we did talk about something like that, yes.

Q. Okay.

A. I'm sorry, you're asking me is this what this says or if it
comports with my memory?

Q. It comports with your memory, right?

A. Yes, except the first sentence, yes.

Q. The first sentence does not, sir?

A. No. I think Nicole may have accepted it then because of her actions
that day, which, I guess you don't want to talk about. Maybe she just
finally accepted it.

Q. And you -- and you -- it's your testimony today before the jury,
that there was no discussion that evening of you and Nicole officially
splitting up?

A. No, not at all.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: You can take that off.

(Exhibit 735 removed from Elmo.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Right after -- I'm going to get into another area.
This may be a good place to break, if I have your permission.

THE COURT: 1:30, ladies and gentlemen. Don't talk about the case,
don't form or express any opinion.

(At 11:53 A.M. a recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1996
1:40 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Can I see counsel at the bench.

THE COURT REPORTER: With the reporter?:

THE COURT: Yes.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

THE COURT: The Court has a memorandum that's been filed. I don't see
any motion filed, however.

MR. BAKER: Well, the motion is to exclude the diaries and exclude the
diaries that he's just gone into, any further excludes the diary of
May 2, 1994 and June 3, 1994 under the points and authorities set
forth therein.

The fact that this is double hearsay that under the new Evidence Code
Section 1370, there isn't a threat of physical violence, and under 352
the language contained herein is quite volatile, it has virtually no
probative value.

He can ask him anything he wants relative to the IRS, but the
probative value of this relative to the prejudicial effect, in my
opinion, far outweighs the prejudicial -- far outweighs the probative
value, in addition to the hearsay upon hearsay, and they have not
demonstrated that these statements were made to indicate
trustworthiness under Evidence Code Section 1252.

We don't know when they were made. I mean, I suppose you can say by
innuendo they were made on the date that she says they were made. But
Mr. Simpson will deny that any of this was ever said on June 3 and
will deny that he has ever called her these kinds of names. So ...

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, we've been through this several times. The
statements or admissions and they're -- the statements are admissions
and they're also relevant to -- directly relevant to her state of
mind. It's her handwriting. If he wants to deny them, fine.

In addition, Mr. Baker directly argued in his opening statement on
numerous occasions about Nicole's state of mind, indicating it was
Simpson who broke up the relationship, indicating there's no anger, no
hostility between the parties.

Now, if he wanted to keep something like this out, he had to stay away
from all those points, and he specifically referenced it over and over
in his opening statement.

MR. BAKER: I didn't reference --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry.

MR. PETROCELLI: Page references. And he said that Nicole Simpson was
her confidante and is basically trying to convince the jury that there
was no reason for a motive at all, nothing was happening between these
parties that would suggest a motive. He affirmatively put that on in
his opening statement. He directly made the state of mind of both
parties relevant. And this goes exactly to showing what was happening
in the relationship days before she was killed.

THE COURT: The Court rules as follows:

First, the Court rules that there is a constitutional issue raised as
to 1370 of the Evidence Code in the memorandum.

The Court finds that the statute is constitutional.

Number 2, the Court will allow the use of those documents for the
purposes of showing the decedent's state of mind.

3, with regards to any specific threats, unless counsel shows me a
threat, insofar as a threat exception is concerned, I don't see how
that would apply.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, she does say --

THE COURT: Threat of physical injury.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's ambiguous.

MR. BAKER: It is not ambiguous. What is coming in?

THE COURT: Her state of mind is coming in. Her state of mind with
regards to the relationship is coming in.

Okay.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

THE COURT: You may resume.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, the witness on the stand at the time of the
luncheon recess, having been previously duly sworn, was examined
further as follows:

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued)

BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. After the evening at Nicole's apartment on May 22, 1994, three
weeks before her murder, when the bracelet and the earrings were given
to you, you sat down and composed a letter to Nicole in regard to an
IRS issue, correct?

A. At some point after, yes.

Q. Now --

A. I didn't sit down and compose it; that's incorrect.

Q. Dictated it?

A. I told Cathy, after I met with my lawyer, to write something to the
effect of --

Q. You -- but you did dictate the basic letter and gave it to Cathy,
correct?

A. Rather than just give Cathy instructions to write the letter
herself, I gave the instruction to write -- I gave her some facts and
asked her to write a letter, yes.

Q. Let me read from your deposition, page 1242, line 3. "Q. That you
dictated the initial draft? "A. I believe so, yes."

Now, just to explain this IRS issue a bit, when you and Nicole got
married, as part of the prenuptial agreement, you gave Nicole owned
title to a rental unit in San Francisco, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. As part of the divorce in 1992, Nicole got to keep that rental
unit; it was in her name. She got to keep it?

A. You know, seven years previous, it was hers when I gave it to her.

Q. And she kept it at the time, as well?

A. Yes.

Q. She didn't give it back, in other words?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And when Nicole moved out of Rockingham, she rented a condo on Gretna
Green, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then at the end of 1993, coming into January of 1994, Nicole
purchased her own condominium at at 875 South Bundy?

A. Correct.

Q. And she sold the unit in San Francisco, the rental unit in San
Francisco, to help pay for the condo at Bundy, right?

A. Essentially, yes.

Q. And she would have had to pay capital gains tax on the unit in San
Francisco, unless it was rolled over into another rental unit on
Bundy, correct?

A. Yeah. I think she had a problem with that, yes.

Q. It would have been a substantial capital gains liability, in the
order of about $100,000 in taxes she would have had to pay if she
could not roll -- roll it over into another rental unit on Bundy,
right?

A. No. I think when I -- I told her to find out.

Q. But the order of magnitude was about 100 grand, right?

A. When I asked her to find out, she was asking me to do something for
her. I think she said it was 70.

I said, well, find out and put it in a separate account.

Q. If it was $100,000, that wouldn't surprise you?

A. I didn't get into her business at that point.

Q. All right.

A. Yes.

Q. And the problem is, though, Bundy would have had to have been a
rental unit for her to not pay these capital gains, as opposed to her
primary residence?

A. I believe that was her problem, yes.

Q. At the time, you and Nicole were going through your reconciliation
period, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That there was talk of your -- excuse me -- of Nicole moving back
into the home with you at Rockingham, if it turned out that things
would turn out between you, right?

A. Yes. She was attempting to move back on numerous occasions in that
year.

Q. So the idea was that, well, she would list Bundy as a rental unit
and move into your place, and in a few months later, when everything
was just right in your relationship, in the meantime, she would list
Bundy as a rental unit, even though she was technically living there,
right?

A. The way you're saying it is, I believe, incorrect.

Q. Well, she moved into Bundy in January of 1994 and didn't rent it
out, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. She didn't pay capital gains taxes at that time?

A. I didn't really know her business.

Q. You knew she didn't pay the capital gains taxes?

A. I knew that she asked me to -- to -- could she list -- actually, my
housekeeper asked me -- well, if you want to know, I could explain.

Q. She asked you if she could list Rockingham as her residence instead
of Bundy, correct?

A. After a few things that happened, that is correct.

Q. And you agreed, right?

A. Not necessarily, no.

Q. Well, you knew, then, after this conversation with you, that she
then listed on her checkbook and on all her mail, Bundy -- excuse me
-- your house, 360 North Rockingham, as her official residence, right?

A. After she had done some things that I directed her to do, yes.

Q. Mr. Baker, I'm sure will get into all that --

A. Okay.

Q. -- when it's his time.

And you and Nicole, from the time she moved in, in January of 1994,
until the time you split up in May of 1994, were having discussions
about if she would move in and when she would move in, right?

A. No. She tried to move in on two or three occasions. I -- I kind of
nixed it and I --

Q. I'm asking you if you had conversations about it, that's all.

A. I can't -- I can't characterize it, sir, as conversations, as I
know on two specific occasions, she was attempting to move in and I
said no, not until, you know, the time limit.

Q. There was no definitive decision made that she would not be moving
in?

A. I think we both hoped she would, and if things worked out --

Q. I'm sorry.

When you broke up in May of 1994, now, for the first time since she
bought Bundy, it was official that she would not be moving back into
Rockingham?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, she had this tax problem because Bundy -- your house was
listed as her residence and Bundy was listed as a rental unit, right?

A. I don't know know if that was a problem.

MR. BAKER: Calls for speculation that she had a tax problem.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You knew she had a tax problem because Bundy
was her residence, and yet, according to IRS records, your house was
her residence?

A. I didn't know what the IRS records were. I just knew that I would
have a problem if she got caught doing what she was doing.

Q. You knew she was listing your house as her residence?

A. Yes.

Q. Right

And she had your permission to do that, right?

A. Well, she did it before she got my permission; then she talked me
into saying it's okay for a while.

Q. Okay.

And you went along with it?

A. Yes.

Q. After the two of you split up, you decided to write her a letter,
telling her that she's going to have to change her address from
Rockingham to Bundy, right?

A. After -- after an incident with my housekeeper, yes.

Q. And you knew that that could generate a substantial tax liability
to Nicole, true?

A. I didn't think so. I thought she'd just use somebody else's
address.

Q. You knew that she would have a problem on her hands, that she'd
have to pay the money or find somebody else to use as her address,
right?

A. I don't think so. I think my understanding --

Q. Okay.

A. -- was -- was that she would have had a year to do it. I just
didn't think.

If she got in trouble, I didn't want to be involved in it.

Q. In any event, you wrote a letter that was somewhat harsh, this
initial letter that you dictated, true?

A. I didn't initially dictate it. I told Cathy, in substance, what I
wanted her to write. Then I went to my lawyer, and I think -- and he
helped me make it official -- more official, I guess.

Q. Let me read from your deposition again at 1237.

"Q. You dictated a letter" --

MR. BAKER: May we have a line, please?

MR. PETROCELLI: 1.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (READING:) "You dictated a letter for Cathy to
type, correct?" "ANSWER: Yes."

A. Yes.

Q. That wasn't true, you dictated a letter for Cathy to type, true?

A. Dictation -- I have a little problem with. I told Cathy in
substance what to write. If you want to say I dictated, I didn't sit
down and say write this in word for word. I gave her in substance what
to write.

Q. And you reviewed it and --

A. Took it to my lawyer.

Q. You sent it to your lawyer?

A. No; I walked into my lawyer's office and I had him read it. And I
think he may have made some subtle changes.

Q. And the initial draft you wrote was somewhat harsh, wasn't it, sir?

A. I think he may have felt it was somewhat harsh.

Q. Let me read from page 1239.

MR. PETROCELLI: Line 1, Mr. Baker.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) "Q. What did that letter contain or say, in
substance, that this final May 31 draft does not say? "A. I don't
know. I thought it sounded somewhat harsh."

A. Yes.

Q. You thought it was a little strong?

A. Yes.

Q. So now, on the stand, under oath, you will admit that the letter
you wrote initially was somewhat harsh, as you said in your
deposition, true?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

A. I don't think that's a correct characterization.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) True, Mr. Simpson?

A. No, it's not true. I think that the letter that Cathy wrote was
harsh.

Q. You answered the question. Thank you.

A. Oh, I'm sorry.

Q. Let me put up --

MR. PETROCELLI: What's this?

811.

(The instrument herein referred to as Fax cover page dated 5/26/94 and
attached letter was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit
No. 811.)

Q. Your lawyer reviewed the letter and revised it for you, didn't he?

A. I took it to him because I felt it was somewhat harsh, and he made
it, I feel, a little more official sounding.

Q. And he sent you a revised version of the letter on May 26, 1994,
correct?

A. I believe so.

Q. And of course, all of this is just a few days from May 22, which is
when the jewelry was returned, correct?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: That's irrelevant and argumentative, Your Honor.

Q. Let's go to this.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: Could you make that a little bigger. Let me see the
signature.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you recognize that handwriting?

A. No, not really.

Q. That's Skip Taft's?

A. Yes.

Q. He's been with you what, 25 years?

A. At least.

Q. At least. Business manager, lawyer, friend?

A. Yes.

Q. The letter says, sir, "made changes you wanted but did not get
revengeful"?

A. Yes.

Q. "Okay to sign and mail. Skip."

A. Yes.

Q. So there was a concern between Mr. Taft and you that your initial
letter was revengeful, correct?

A. I think that was a concern from me. That's why I brought it to him,
because I think, as Cathy wrote it, it sounded rather harsh.

Q. This is Cathy's letter, now, not yours? Is that what you're telling
this jury, that Cathy Randa, the secretary --

A. Um-hum.

Q. -- wrote the letter that you, O.J. Simpson, had nothing to do with
it?

A. That's not -- I don't think that's been my testimony at all.

I told Cathy, in substance, one day, write a letter to Nicole about
changing her address and finding another way to do it. Just tell her
that she can't use my address. I don't want her coming to my house,
hassling my housekeeper anymore.

And Cathy wrote the letter. And when the letter -- she faxed it to me
-- it seemed very harsh to me.

So then I took it to my lawyer and told Skip, "Skip, read this. Here's
the problem. Let's make it a little more official."

That's what he did.

Q. And let's make it not so revengeful, too?

A. Well, that may be his word. My word to him was "harsh." His word is
"revengeful." But I didn't -- I thought the letter was rather harsh.

Q. Now, in truth, Mr. Simpson, you were extremely unhappy and angry
and there were feelings of revenge going on with you towards Nicole;
true or untrue?

A. Untrue.

Q. And that is why your lawyer wrote back to you and said, I did not
get revengeful? True or untrue?

A. I think he did what I told -- instructed him to do.

Q. True or untrue?

A. Untrue.

Q. Your lawyer, with this letter, sent you a revised draft of your
initial draft which you cannot produce for us. Sir, you cannot produce
the initial harsh draft, true?

A. True.

Q. Okay.

Do you know where it is?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

So let's go to the draft you received back from your good friend and
colleague, Mr. Taft, May 31, 1994.

MR. PETROCELLI: What's the exhibit number, Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 811.

MR. PETROCELLI: 811.

MR. FOSTER: Page 2.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. Can you move it to the left.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

Can you get the whole thing in view, Steve. Right there.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading:) "Dear Nicole: "On advice of legal
counsel and because of the change in our circumstances, I am compelled
to put you on written notice that you do not have my permission or
authority to use my permanent home address at 360 North Rockingham
Avenue, Los Angeles, California, 90049, as your residence or mailing
address for any purpose, including but not limited to, information and
tax returns filed with any taxing entity. "O.J. Simpson."

Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. And the change in circumstances, Mr. Simpson, was the final and
official breakup between Nicole and you, true?

A. In substance, yes.

Q. That had occurred shortly before this letter-writing effort began,
true?

A. In substance, yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you got that letter, you did not approve it, true?

A. I'm sure I did; it got sent.

Q. You sent a different version of it sir, did you not?

A. You know, I don't really know. I don't.

Q. Well, let's take a look.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is exhibit what, Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 17.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) 17. June 6, 1994, correct?

That's six days before Nicole's murder. Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. Via messenger. You know what that means?

A. I think most of the stuff I sent Nicole was via messenger.

Q. Hand-delivered?

A. I think every note I sent her was via messenger.

Q. This one, correct, was hand-delivered?

A. I didn't deliver it.

I'm sure Cathy used the messenger service we always use.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put the document on so I can focus on the
second and third paragraph, the first paragraph, the same -- stop
right there (indicating to TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's your signature, right?

A. Possibly Cathy signed it for me.

Q. You authorized her to sign it for you?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, second paragraph: (Reading:) "Because of your mail and phone
calls coming to my address, it may be interpreted that you are using
my address as your primary residence, when, in fact, your primary
residence is 875 South Bundy Drive, Los Angeles, California 90049."

You see that?

A. Yes.

Q. And your purpose in including that paragraph was to make it
absolutely clear that, in fact, your residence was not Nicole's
primary residence, right?

A. Absolutely.

Q. Creating big problems for Nicole, correct?

A. I don't think so, unless she got caught doing what she was doing;
then I think it would have been a problem.

Q. Last paragraph.

MR. BAKER: Can you allow him to answer the question, Mr. Petrocelli --

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm sorry.

MR. BAKER: -- and not talk over him please?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Big problems for Nicole, that was my question.

A. If she got caught, I knew it would be big problems for her. I
didn't want it to be big problems for me.

Q. Last paragraph. (Reading:) "I cannot take part in any course of
action by you that might intentionally or unintentionally be
misleading to the Internal Revenue Service or California Franchise Tax
Board."

Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. You really wanted to drive the point home there, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you wanted to put her on notice that she may be committing
illegal violations of law, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Misleading IRS, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Something you would never do, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is the mother of your children, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you knew that she had two choices: Pay the taxes or get out of
the place and rent it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And perhaps move back to you at Rockingham?

A. Or she could have gotten somebody else to use the address.

Q. And she could have come back to you, too, couldn't she?

A. No, she couldn't.

Q. This letter could have forced her hand to come back to you, true?

A. That's absolutely false.

She had the money to pay the taxes, cause I forced her early on,
before I allowed her to use my address, to put her tax money in a
separate account, talk to her tax person, so in case we didn't get
back together, she'll have the money to pay the taxes if they came
after her for her taxes.

Q. Mr. Simpson, you knew this letter would frighten Nicole; you knew
it would upset her; correct?

A. That was not my intention.

Q. But you knew it would have that effect?

A. I think subconsciously I wanted her to pay her taxes so she
wouldn't lose the house that my kids were in.

Q. But you knew it would greatly upset her?

A. I think my purpose --

Q. Can you answer that question yes or no?

Did you know when you sent that letter to her threatening IRS action
and all this --

A. That's not --

MR. BAKER: Wait. I object.

THE WITNESS: -- that's not threatening IRS --

MR. BAKER: He hasn't threatened any IRS action.

THE COURT: Excuse me.

Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You knew when you sent that letter talking
about misleading the IRS, that this would greatly upset her, true --

MR. BAKER: Calls for speculation.

Q. -- or untrue?

MR. BAKER: Calls for speculation on the part of this witness.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No, not the way you said it, no.

Q. Okay.

Now, the two of you had some very vile arguments about this issue
prior to your sending the letter, true?

A. That's absolutely wrong.

Q. And you threatened her that you would be sending this letter,
didn't you?

A. No.

Q. And on June 2, Thursday, you had a telephone call with Nicole and
you hung -- excuse me -- she hung up on you on that call?

A. No.

Q. Right.

When Nicole hangs up on you, you get angry and you want to retaliate,
true?

A. No.

Q. Let me see the entry.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit?

MR. FOSTER: 735.

(The instrument herein referred to as Diary page of Nicole Brown
Simpson dated June 3 was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 735.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Put it up there.

(Exhibit 735 displayed on TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) June 3, Friday, O.J. came to pick up kids at
8:30 p.m. They wanted to stay home because I let them organize
sleep-overs.

MR. BAKER: Is this a question or --

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

MR. BAKER: This is not a question.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. I'm reading the entry into the record and
I'm going to ask him some questions about it.

MR. BAKER: Then I don't think reading entries into the record and
asking him questions about it --

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: That's improper.

THE COURT: Go ahead.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (READING:) "June 3. O.J. came to pick up kids
at 8:30 p.m. They wanted to stay home . . . at the last minute -
thought daddy wasn't coming. Told O.J. I would drop them off first
thing in the AM."

Let's stop right there.

Now, you did come over to Nicole's condo about 8:00, 8:30-ish on
Friday, June 3, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you went there to pick up the kids to take them home, for them
to sleep at your house on Friday night and have them on Saturday,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. You got there kind of on the late side, you think, unbeknownst to
you, in the meantime, Nicole organized a sleep-over for the children,
right?

A. That's not true.

Q. Well, when you got there, the kids were occupied with friends and
you did not leave with the children, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And Nicole said she would bring them over the next day, right?

A. Or I could pick them up the next day.

Q. Or you can pick them up?

A. Yeah.

Q. So you went there and you left without the kids, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then the following exchange occurred between you and Nicole.
You said to her: lm20 "You hung up on me last night. You're going to
pay for this, bitch." True?

A. Absolutely false.

Q. (READING:) "You're holding money from the IRS, you're going to
jail, you fucking cunt."

Did you say that?

A. I have never used that phrase, ever, with anybody, in my life.

Q. And you certainly didn't use it on this occasion?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. Nicole just made all this up?

A. Absolutely. And this is not true.

Q. "You think you can do any fucking thing. You've got it coming. I've
already talked to my lawyers about this, bitch."

Is that all untrue?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you had talked to your lawyers about the IRS issue, as we have
just seen, true?

A. True.

Q. "They'll get you for tax evasion, bitch. I'll see to it. You're not
going to have a fucking dime left, bitch," et cetera.

You said that, too, didn't you?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. And three days later, you hand-delivered the letter to Nicole,
true?

A. I think the next workday, Cathy may have sent it.

Q. We're talking about you, not Cathy Randa.

A. No. That's absolutely false.

Q. You told Cathy to send that letter to Nicole that we just showed on
the TV monitor, right?

A. I told Cathy --

Q. Yes or no?

A. A week, weeks earlier to send a letter. And I gather this was three
days later, may have been Monday or Tuesday after the holiday, and she
finally sent the letter.

Q. So Cathy just happened to send it the very next Monday after you
and Nicole have this fight on Friday. Total coincidence, is that what
you're saying?

A. I would have expected it to be sent on Thursday or Friday of that
week, yes.

Q. So you're saying the fact that this letter was sent on Monday, the
6th, by hand delivery, had absolutely nothing to do with a
conversation you had with Nicole on Friday, June 3. Is that what
you're telling this jury?

A. Yes, that's what I'm telling this jury.

Q. Okay.

And you threatened Nicole with this IRS issue because you knew it was
a way to retaliate against her because she was not doing what you
wanted her to do?

A. That's not true.

Q. That's why you made the letter even tougher than your lawyer had
advised, true?

A. I don't know. I think even the second portion of the letter I did
-- I did with my lawyer.

Q. And you know that when Nicole got this letter, she was absolutely
devastated; you know that, don't you?

A. No, I hadn't seen her after she got this letter.

Q. And by the way, June 4, 9 o'clock a.m., the next morning, do you
see that entry? That's Saturday morning. Do you see that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. "I drove the kids over to Rockingham. No one answered. No one was
home to take the kids. So I took them over again at 1 p.m. They spent
the night."

Now, in the morning on Saturday, June 4, you were at your most
favorite place, that is, Riviera Country Club, and you were playing
golf, right?

A. Um, a part of that is true, part of it is not true.

Q. You tee off 6:00, 7 o'clock, get back after you do your lunch and
your cards and all that, you're back by what 1, 2 o'clock?

A. It depends.

Q. And you weren't home at 9 O'clock in the morning on June 4, right?

A. I would think not. It was a Saturday morning.

Q. And the kids were then dropped off later at 1 o'clock p.m. and they
spent the night with you Saturday, June 4, right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. In fact, you took them, with Paula, to a pediatric AIDS event
Sunday, June 5?

A. And some more people, yes.

Q. Correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So, in other words, everything in these diary entries that we just
showed you is true, except where Nicole reports what you said to her?

A. Yes.

Q. And all that's a pack of lies, right?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: You can take it off.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

Q. The weekend before, Mr. Simpson, you went to Palm Springs with
Paula Barbieri to attend a birthday party thrown by your good friend,
Alan Austin, for his wife, Gail, right?

A. I don't think that's why we went, but I think while we were there,
Alan had a dinner.

Q. Dinner party, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You were there?

A. Yes.

Q. Alan and Gail were there?

A. Yes.

Q. Skip Taft?

A. Yes.

Q. His wife was there?

A. Yes.

Q. A woman named Donna Estes was there?

A. Yes.

Q. And her boyfriend?

A. Probably.

Q. And you went there on Saturday, and Paula Barbieri joined you
there, right, correct, Memorial Day weekend?

A. I don't know.

My memory is that Paula and I went together.

Q. Let me see if I can refresh it a little bit.

Paula came with you, drove separately, met you at LaQuinta, and you
and she had an argument that Saturday that resulted in Paula leaving
LaQuinta before the dinner, correct?

A. Partially correct, partially not correct.

We Went together.

Q. And she left separately, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you played golf that morning, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Played -- it was about 100 degrees, right?

A. Who knows.

Q. Then -- and you wanted to play a second round after the first
round, right?

A. I think what we did was, we got there at about 4:00 in the morning.
I got up at 6:00, went and played golf.

When I got back, Paula was pretty upset; she left. And I went back out
and played with the guys again.

Q. One of them was a fellow named Jackie Cooper, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Old friend of yours, and your boyhood friend, Al Cowlings, right?

A. I don't believe -- say that again.

Q. Mr. Cooper is a friend of yours and a friend of Al Cowlings, right?

A. He's a tennis pro there at LaQuinta.

Q. Paula was upset with you because you got up and wanted to play golf
and didn't want to spend time with her, right?

A. Yeah. I think she wanted to wake up with me.

Q. And you guys had an argument, and she took off, right?

A. I don't think we really had an argument. She just said she was
leaving.

Q. One of the things that happened in that argument with Paula is, she
said to you, you know, you broke my heart a year ago and I came back
to you when you said that it was over with Nicole, right?

A. I don't recall this.

Q. And she said to you, or she asked you, do you still love Nicole,
correct?

MR. BAKER: Objection. This is all hearsay.

A. I don't recall this at this time.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you still love Nicole? She asked you that,
right?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Hearsay.

A. I don't recall this.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you said, yes, I do?

A. I always loved Nicole.

Q. And you told that to Paula on that day, right?

A. If she would have asked me that day, as if she would have asked me
in the year we were together, I would have said I always loved Nicole;
I always loved Marguerite.

Q. And that evening you went to dinner without Paula, right?

A. Yeah, I believe so.

Q. And you talked -- you're a big talker, aren't you? You like to
talk, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you talked a lot at dinner that night about Paula leaving and
about Nicole, right?

A. I don't think it was a lot at all. I think everybody talked about
various things, and the subject of Paula and Nicole came up at one
point, yes.

Q. And you told the folks at the table that Paula left because she was
upset, and you told them she asked you if you loved Nicole, and you
said yes, and she split?

A. Paula left because I got up to play golf.

Q. Did you tell that to the folks that you ate dinner that night?

A. Not the way you said it.

Q. Did you?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell that to Donna Estes? Yes or no?

A. I didn't have a private conversation with Donna Estes.

Q. Did you tell it to Donna Estes at the dinner table? Yes or no?

A. I never had a private conversation with Donna Estes.

Q. Did you say it to her in her company, in her presence that evening?

A. Not the way you said it.

Q. Did you say it in some other way?

A. Yeah. I think during the course of the conversation, Paula left. I
think we knew during the day that Paula was upset. When we got back
from golf, she was visibly upset. She decided to leave. And I think we
spoke in general about not my relationship, everybody's relationship.
And during the course of that conversation, I'm sure Nicole's name
came into that conversation.

Q. The truth of the matter is, you spoke all night about Nicole,
didn't you?

A. No, that's not the truth of the matter.

Q. Now, around this same period of time, Memorial Day weekend, maybe
the days before Memorial Day weekend, you had another argument with
Nicole about a charity event at Cedars-Sinai Hospital and a Sports
Spectacular event?

A. Slightly. I can't say we had an argument.

Nicole called me, yelling at me, slightly before -- I believe there --
this -- this was slightly before Memorial Day weekend.

Q. That's what I thought.

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Slightly before Memorial Day weekend?

A. Yes.

Q. Nicole called you and was yelling at you, saying you were trying to
steal her friends away, right?

A. Exactly.

Q. And she got upset because you were going to go to this event with
Paula and you were going to invite some of her friends, correct?

A. That's not correct.

Q. You were -- she was upset because her friends were invited to
attend this event?

A. Her friends asked to go to this event, so...

Q. They were going to go with you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole and you argued about that because you were taking her
friends away, in her view?

A. No, we didn't. She called, yelled, and hung up.

Q. Hung up on you?

A. Yes.

Q. So is it fair to say, end of May, going into June 3 and June 6,
things are not very good between Nicole and you?

You guys are at each other, aren't you?

A. I disagree with that.

I was -- I was just opposite at her, cause I had gone back to what I
had done the previous year; I was avoiding her.

Q. Nicole was upset with you quite a bit during this time frame,
wasn't she?

Wasn't she, sir?

A. Because I didn't talk to her during this time frame. I don't know
what she was, because I was avoiding her.

Q. Was she or wasn't she? That's what I want to know.

A. I couldn't tell you, because I wouldn't talk to her after the
hang-up.

Q. Now, on June 6 --

In fact, the day you hand-delivered that letter that we just saw, you
went over to Nicole's house to pick up Justin, didn't you?

A. What day was June 6?

Q. Monday.

A. I'm not sure of that.

Q. You went to get --

A. I know Justin was with me.

Q. You went to get Chachi?

A. Justin, I believe, was with me. I believe we went over to pick up
-- Nicole had called and said something about the dogs were fighting,
and so I went over to get the dog.

Q. And when you went there, you saw Nicole on the balcony and she said
nothing to you and you said nothing to her, true?

A. Nothing, yeah, other than the dogs, something to that effect.

Q. No conversation between the two of you, true?

A. None.

Yes.

Q. The next day, June 7, Tuesday, you told your friend at Riviera,
Alan Austin, that it was -- you announced to him it was over with
Nicole for good, true?

A. Not -- no, no, that's not right.

Q. You told Mr. Austin on Tuesday, June 7, that it was finally over
once and for all, true?

A. No, I don't believe so. I think Alan knew a month ago, previous, it
was over.

But Alan, like her friends, at times, would also -- oh, you guys are
going to get back together. And if Nicole came up that day, I probably
just emphasized to him no, Alan, this is not happening.

Q. And you flew back east that day, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And in the evening, you called to speak to the kids, right, in
Washington, D.C., I think?

A. I know I normally do. I'm sure I did.

Q. And there was no conversation between you and Nicole on the
telephone, true?

A. One of the nights Nicole asked me was I going to go -- to be back
for the recital.

Other than that, I don't believe there was any conversation between
us.

Q. So it's fair to say, during this week leading up to her murder,
there is virtually zero communication between Nicole and you, true?

A. Well, other than the dog and the kids, I --

Q. True?

A. That's not necessarily true.

There was zero conversation between Nicole and I on any subject
outside of the kids. But I think we had a brief thing because of the
dog.

Q. Maybe a few words about kids and dogs; and other than that, zero?

A. Of mine was -- that was what I was doing.

Q. Is that true?

A. That's true.

Q. Okay.

Now, you also missed on that Tuesday, June 7, Justin's graduation from
the Sunshine School, right?

A. I don't think it was Tuesday. I thought it was, like, Wednesday or
Thursday.

Q. You missed it, right?

A. Yes.

I didn't know about it, so it was -- essentially, I missed it.

Q. Nicole expressed some upset at you for missing that event, as well,
true?

A. Not at all. She didn't even talk about it.

Justin asked me when I called Thursday.

Q. Now, around this period of time, you're back east, right?

A. I'm working back east, yes.

Q. Yeah. You're back there Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and you
returned on Friday, June 10, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Another letter, at your request, was sent out to Nicole, true?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. If Cathy Randa testified that she had that hand-delivered, would
you accept that?

A. Depending on the letter, but I really don't believe so.

MR. PETROCELLI: Well, let's look at it.

(The instrument herein referred to as a Letter dated June 8, 1994,
from O.J. Simpson to Nicole Brown Simpson was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 812.)

(Exhibit 812 displayed on TV screen.)

Q. This is a letter dated June 8, 1994. (Reading:) "Dear Nicole: "To
set the record straight, when Arnelle, Jason, or myself are at home to
watch the kids, especially around the pool, they are welcome here at
any time. I would love to have them 14 [sic] hours a day, as it is
their home, too."

A. I think that's 24.

Q. 24 hours a day. Excuse me. "However, Gigi is not an emergency cook,
baby-sitter or errand runner for you!" Exclamation point. "She is an
employee of mine and I expect you to respect that now and in the
future."

A. Yes.

Q. Pretty stern letter, isn't it?

A. I don't know how you want to characterize it, but it was never
sent.

Q. So if Cathy Randa said it was, she would not be telling the truth?

A. I -- she would not be telling the truth.

This letter was never sent.

Q. You dictated it, didn't you?

A. I dictated it, possibly, around the time I was doing the IRS
letter, but I purposely told Cathy not to send the letter unless
Nicole continues to hassle Gigi while I was gone, so if when I
returned from this trip, that Gigi told me Nicole had continued to
hassle her, I would have sent the letter.

Q. When you went back east on this trip, you were playing golf. I
think it was in Virginia, right?

A. Yeah. Yes.

Q. And you flew to Connecticut and you had a meeting at the Forstner
Corporation, the Swiss Army Knife company?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you took a limo down to Long Island to meet up with your good
friend, Bobby Bender, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And played golf there on Thursday afternoon, and then went over to
Bobby Bender's house, and with his wife, Robin, and their family, had
dinner there?

A. Correct.

Q. And slept over, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, that night, you had conversations with Bobby Bender about the
fact that your relationship with Nicole had broken up, right?

A. Yeah. I'm sure it came up, yes.

Q. And you told Mr. Bender that you were upset about it, right?

A. Yeah.

I was disappointed, probably more than upset, that we couldn't make it
work.

Q. You were depressed that night?

A. No.

Q. In fact, you were so depressed that Mr. Bender couldn't even get
you out of the chair to play golf the next day?

A. That wasn't about depression; that was about my knees and hands
being swollen from flying and playing golf. I had to be helped even on
the golf course the next day. It was not about being upset.

Q. Couldn't have been about being upset or depressed about Nicole?

A. No, it was about too much flying and too much golf, and my
arthritis had kind of taken over.

Q. Okay.

You left -- well, the next morning, with all this arthritis --

By the way, you're playing golf, like, every single today?

A. Hey, I've done it, and most of the guys will tell you that play
with me, sometimes they have to help me down hills.

I still get on the golf course.

Q. Friday morning, you played golf in Long Island again?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you took a plane back to Los Angeles, right?

A. That's right.

Q. Picked up at the airport by Paula Barbieri, driven to Rockingham,
had dinner, went to bed, Paula sleeping at your house that night,
true?

A. For a while. I think she may have left in the middle of the night.

Q. You got up the next morning on Saturday, June 11, at about 6:00
a.m. and you went to play golf at Riviera, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. When you came back from golf, you spent the afternoon at Rockingham
with Kato Kaelin, talking for a bit of time, correct?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And also, Ron Fischman man stopped by; you chatted with him for a
while?

A. Yes.

Q. And you and Ron were commiserating about your failed relationships,
right?

A. I think -- yeah. I think that was possibly the tone of the
conversation, about the girls.

Q. And in the afternoon, you watched this Garp movie and pointed out
this fellatio scene to Kato Kaelin, did you not?

A. Yeah.

Q. Huh?

A. I -- that's always been one of my favorite scenes in the movie.

Q. You pointed it out to him, and mentioned at the time when you saw
Nicole having oral sex with this fellow Keith, right?

A. I don't believe so, no.

Q. That part you don't remember?

A. I don't think I would have talked to Kato about that incident.

Q. Now, by that time, you had heard that Nicole was out looking for a
new condominium in Malibu, right?

A. I didn't know that.

Q. You found that out subsequently, didn't you?

A. I found that out when I was in jail, yes.

Q. That she was moving because of the IRS letter that you sent, right?

A. That's not what I heard, the way I heard it, but....

Q. But she was moving, right?

A. I believe so.

I heard it from a friend of hers that said that she was trying to get
away from the people she was hanging around.

Q. Nothing to do with the IRS letter, just her friends?

A. Marianna said Nicole had met with her Saturday.

Q. You don't have to tell me that --

A. She wanted to get away from people she was hanging around.

Q. Excuse me, Mr. Simpson. I didn't ask what she said to you.

A. I thought you did.

Q. Are you telling us, based on what you have heard and learned, that
Nicole's decision to get a new place in Malibu had absolutely nothing
to do with the position that you took on this IRS issue?

A. I don't believe it did.

Q. Thank you.

Now, that night, Saturday, you went to a formal event with Paula
Barbieri, right?

A. Yes.

Q. This was kind of a fancy party honoring the then first lady of
Israel?

A. I thought it was for a hospital in Israel, and the first lady was
the -- was the host, I believe, yes.

Q. Okay.

And you went with Paula, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And by the way, when you played golf that day, you went back to
Rockingham, you hung around Rockingham until it was time to go to the
event, right?

A. I believe I -- I know I tried to call Paula at some time in that
period of time, but basically, that's correct.

Q. And Paula lived on Wilshire Boulevard then, right?

A. Yes.

Q. She had an apartment there?

A. Condominium.

Q. Yeah.

You picked Paula up and you went to this event, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And at this event, you and Paula talked about things like filling
rooms of your house up with babies, right?

A. That's not exactly correct.

She was commenting on this house and we said -- and then she said
something about how would you like to fill -- try to fill this house
up with babies, yes.

Q. So the two of you were kind of talking about having children, maybe
getting married, filling the rooms up with babies. It was sort of a
warm conversation, fair enough?

A. We weren't talking about getting married at all. But, you know,
it's just something that was said about trying to fill this house up
with babies. But we certainly were in a very loving mood, yes.

Q. And you left there in a loving mood, right?

A. Yeah. For the most part, yes.

Q. You dropped her off at her her condo on Wilshire and you did not
spend the night with her, right?

A. Yeah. I was a little tired.

Q. You went back to Rockingham --

A. Yes.

Q. -- and went to sleep.

And the next morning, you got up around 6:00 a.m. and you went to
Riviera to play golf, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in fact, sir, you and Paula had a disagreement that evening,
true?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. You had a disagreement with Paula Barbieri because she wanted to go
to the recital and be there with you and be there when Nicole would be
there, so that you would accept her in Nicole's presence for the first
time; is that true?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. And you and she fought about the fact that she -- you would not let
her go to the recital because you did not feel comfortable having her
at the recital because Nicole would be there; is that true?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. Now, the next morning -- and you know this from reviewing your cell
phone records, sir -- she left an eight-minute message on your voice
mail, ending your relationship, right?

A. She left a message. I found out later, I guess, when I was in jail,
I believe, that she had left a message, yes.

Q. Ending the relationship, right?

A. No, doing exactly what she did in Palm Springs.

Q. She told you she didn't want to have anything more to do with you
anymore, right?

A. I don't know. I never heard the message.

Q. You sat in at Paula Barbieri's deposition -- I questioned her about
this in this case -- did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you heard Ms. Barbieri testify that she sent you that message
at 7:00 in the morning, telling you that it was over. Then she left
town and did not tell you where she was going, right?

A. Yes.

I don't know if that's exactly what she said.

Q. Close enough.

A. I knew she was going to Arizona or Vegas, or she made words to that
effect.

Q. And she left you that message breaking up with you, sir, because
you and she fought, fought about Nicole once again; true or untrue?

A. I know absolutely, and I sat in that deposition, and she did not
say that, absolutely.

Q. Is that true or untrue, that --

A. That is --

Q. -- the two of you fought over Nicole that night?

A. That is absolutely not what she said in her deposition.

Q. I didn't ask you what you she said.

A. I thought you were talking about her deposition.

Q. I asked you if it was true or untrue.

A. It's totally untrue.

Q. The next morning on the golf course, sir -- you played golf with
these guys for quite a long time, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Alan Austin?

A. Yes.

Q. Craig Baumgarten?

A. Yes.

Q. Bob Hoskins?

A. Yes.

Q. Michael Keori, who has since passed away?

A. Yes.

Q. You told Alan Austin and you told Craig Baumgarten that you and
Paula, to use your words, had a "beef" the night before?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. And you told Paula that -- you told Alan Austin and you told Craig
Baumgarten that Paula was pretty upset with you?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. And in fact, on the golf course that morning, you had a near
physical confrontation with Craig Baumgarten, right?

A. I disagree with that.

Q. Did you or didn't you?

A. Did not.

Q. You exchanged words and almost came to blows, right?

A. Didn't come near to blows. It was something that happens virtually
every day on the golf course, somebody has an argument in my group.

Q. Isn't it fair to say that you had never been that angry at him as
you were for a few moments that morning?

A. With Craig, I've been angry with him, but it was the first time
that -- one of the few times that I had words -- normally I'd be that
angry with Alan, also, not Craig.

Q. But you were really angry with Craig that morning?

A. Yes.

I was angry with -- with -- with Craig on that hole, yes.

Q. Now, you left.

After you played golf that morning, you played some cards, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Left Riviera around 2:00 p.m.?

A. I believe so.

Q. And you drove to the golf course in your Bronco, right, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. The Bronco that you normally parked on Ashford, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Ashford, right near the mailbox, right?

A. Not always, but I would say more than any other place, yes.

Q. Normally, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And one of the reasons, by the way, is, it's closer from the
mailbox to the front door than it is from Rockingham to the front
door, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you don't need your key to get in because you can kind of
jiggle that gate and get through, right?

A. I think I had to punch it, so it wouldn't matter.

Q. Wouldn't matter, you could just clip it?

A. I believe so.

Q. If you didn't have it, you could jiggle the gate and get in?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you left -- when you left Riviera, you made some phone
calls from the Bronco, on the way home, actually. You were on your way
to Paula's, right?

A. I was attempting to make some phone calls, but it's pretty tough
along that stretch on Sunset.

Q. And then you made a couple cell phone calls to Paula and couldn't
get through, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you got through and discovered that she was not there, right?

A. At some point, yes.

Q. And then you decided not to go there because she wasn't home,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you also called Nicole's condominium at 2:18 p.m., according
to your cell phone records, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you spoke for four minutes, right?

A. Not really.

Q. And your cell phone records show 2:18 to 2:22. The call was four
minutes.

A. The call may have been four minutes.

Q. And your lawyer, in opening statements, said that you --

MR. BAKER: I object to anything that --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You talked to Nicole about taking Justin off
her hands because she was getting Sydney ready for her big recital,
right?

A. That was I think a second or third phase of the conversation.

Q. And Nicole said no, that she did not want you to take Justin, true?

A. I believe Erin was there or about to arrive. Dominique either was
there -- somebody was about to arrive, Shauna or Erin or someone, they
were playing or she was going to have them play.

Q. So you didn't take Justin, right?

A. No.

Q. Okay. And you then drove home, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And kept calling Paula several times, right?

A. I think I tried to right when I got home, maybe -- I think, yeah, I
-- I think I may have when I hung up with Nicole. I think I may have
tried her. I'm not sure if I tried her again until after I got back
from the recital but I may have. But I -- I know I left a message on
her machine, but I thought it was in the car right after I finished
talking to Nicole, and I don't really think I tried her once I got
home.

Q. Now, you made these phone calls from your cell phone because your
cell phone was in the Bronco, right?

A. Because it was there when I was driving, and if she was home, I
would have probably gone to her house for a little bit.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is a good place, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Okay. 10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Don't talk about
the case, don't form or express any opinions.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Like to mark as the next exhibit in order -- what do we have?

MR. FOSTER: 2216.

THE CLERK: Correct.

(The instrument herein described as document entitled Simpson
telephone calls dated June 12, 1994 was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2216.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, the first time you used your cell
on that day was at 2:12 p.m., I'm talking about June 12, true?

A. I would assume so.

Q. You've seen these cell phone records before, haven't you?

A. I looked at the paper that they were on.

Q. Okay. And the 2:12 p.m. relates to a time when you were calling Ms.
Barbieri upon leaving Riviera, right.

A. Pardon me?

Q. 2:12 p.m. represents the time that you tried contacting Paula after
you left Riviera?

A. I would imagine so.

Q. You tried her first at her home number, which is a local number on
Wilshire Boulevard, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you tried her right away at a cell phone number which was a
305 area code number in Florida, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you -- did you get through on either of these calls to
leave a message?

A. The first call may have gotten through, then cut out. I was on
Sunset, as I said.

Q. Then at 2:18 you made a 4-minute telephone call to Nicole's
condominium, right?

A. Yes.

Q. In part with Nicole, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then at 2:22 p.m. you again tried calling Paula both at the
cellular -- both to her cellular phone, right?

A. I would imagine so.

Q. Then at 2:23?

A. I left her a message.

Q. You left her a message on her home phone here at Wilshire?

A. Yes.

Q. Then again tried the cell phone at 2:24?

A. Yeah. I was still in the car.

Q. You're pretty frantically interested in getting in touch with her,
are you not?

MR. BAKER: I object to the characterization.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Were you interested and eager to get in touch
with her?

A. I don't know about eager. I just would like to get a complete phone
call to her.

Q. Well, you had left a message earlier in the series of calls, had
you not?

A. I believe that's when -- where it says two minutes, possibly I was
leaving a message and it must have cut out. That's probably why I
tried again.

Q. Okay. Now, you got home at around -- shortly after that 2:24 p.m.
phone call, right?

A. I would imagine so, yes.

Q. You left your telephone at that point in the Bronco, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you have one of those cell phones that you can switch between
your cars, you have brackets in either car and you can put it in
either car, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And you went inside the house and kind of lounged around that
afternoon, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Kato Kaelin came by?

A. Yes.

Q. And you invited him in?

A. Yes, I saw him. Hey, Kato, what's going on.

Q. And he introduced you to a woman named Tracy Adele? At least gave
you her telephone number?

A. Not really to --

Q. Told you about her?

A. Started telling me that I should meet this girl, Tracy Adele.

Q. Is this a model for Playboy?

A. I didn't know her, so she may have purported that, yes.

Q. Didn't you ask him to run out and buy the local -- I mean the most
recent issue of Playboy magazine and -- to look at a picture of her in
the centerfold?

A. No. I think I may have asked him, do you have a picture of her.

I certainly wouldn't say run out and get a Playboy.

Q. He went out and got a Playboy and showed you a picture of her?

A. I think he did.

Q. Then you called that Tracy Adele at 2:49 p.m. on Sunday, June 12,
right?

A. That's not correct. I mean, that's not correct, how it happened.

Q. Well, you called her at 2 --

A. She called me at -- since Kato called her and left a message. She
called me I think long distance, and when she called me I said are you
calling long distance? She said yes. I said are you in a hotel?" She
said yes. Give me the number, I'll call you back so you won't get
charged for the bill.

Q. You called her and had a 20-minute phone conversation with her from
your home phone at Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. That's another phone call you see reflected on the board?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit is that?

MR. FOSTER: 2216.

MR. PETROCELLI: 2216.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, after you spoke to Tracy Adele and chatted
for a bit with Kato Kaelin, you dozed off for a while?

A. I -- I may have, yes. I was watching something on TV and reading a
book and I obviously -- yeah, I believe I did.

Q. You were pretty tired by this point, right?

A. I had been tired for the -- I had been doing a lot. I had been to
five cities in five days. Yeah, I was jet-lagged and tired.

Q. And now you were taking a redeye that night?

A. Yes.

Q. And you wanted to make sure that you could sleep on that "Red Eye,"
right?

A. At this time I don't think I was really thinking about that,
sleeping or not sleeping on the "Red Eye."

Q. Certainly later on you were thinking of trying to stay awake so
that you could sleep on the redeye?

A. After we had gone for the burgers, yes, at that point it would have
been too late to try to sleep.

Q. Now, you got dressed to go to the recital, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, this is a recital that you knew was very important to Sydney,
right?

A. I would assume so, yes.

Q. And you had to be in Chicago the very next morning for a golf
tournament early in the morning, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your friend in New York, Bobby Bender, tried to persuade you to
stay in New York, play golf over the weekend and then just fly
directly to Chicago so you wouldn't have to make a trip all the way
back to LA and go all the way back to Chicago?

A. Correct.

Q. You said no, you better go back, right?

A. I had missed her Communion and I didn't want to miss this also.

Q. And you had missed Justin's graduation event as well, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole had expressed to you her unhappiness that you were
missing these important occasions for your children, right?

A. Before -- before the communion she had asked can you get out of
this. Once she told me it was a communion, which was only four, five
days previous, she said could I get out of the event that I was in,
and that's when I started calling the Chairman of Hertz and everybody
to see if they could get me out.

The school thing, I don't think I was aware of until I was on the
plane.

Q. My question, Mr. Simpson, was at this point in time, in Long
Island, on June 9, you knew that Nicole would be extremely unhappy
with you if you were to miss Sydney's dance recital, true or untrue?

A. What Nicole felt at that time was no concern of mine.

Q. I didn't ask you if it was a concern?

A. It was not something I considered.

Q. Did you know and believe that she would be upset with you if you
missed the dance recital? Can you please answer that question?

A. It was absolutely nothing that I considered.

Q. You knew she would be upset?

A. I had -- it was not anything I considered.

Q. So you didn't know?

A. I didn't know.

Q. Okay. Thank you.

Now, at this dance recital, you -- you arrived in your Bentley, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And at this time your Bronco, your Ford Bronco is parked out on
Ashford, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your cell phone is in the Bronco, right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you drove to the Bentley -- to the dance recital and you parked
and you went inside?

A. Yes.

Q. You got a seat, right?

A. My son saw me come in me and said, mommy's got a seat for you, and
I went and sat --

Q. You didn't --

A. Can I finish my answer, please.

Q. I'm sorry. Please.

A. And said, mommy has a seat for you. And I went and sat with the
family.

Q. Okay. Mommy has a seat for you?

A. Yes.

Q. Meaning Nicole, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So are you telling the jury that you and Nicole and the children
all sat together as a happy family that night?

A. I am telling the jury that the thing was standing-room only, and
where Nicole had saved my seat was two seats from her with only two
seats between us that was for the kids, and directly in front of me
was her sister and Nicole -- I mean Cora Fischman, and directly in
front of them was her mother, Ron Fischman, and her father.

Q. By the way, when you came in, you didn't greet Nicole, did you?

A. When I first came in, I actually had to go to Nicole and say,
Nicole, you have the tickets? And she handed -- because we were
supposed to meet outside, but because I was a few minutes late, they
were already inside, holding the seats, and she -- because I talked to
her about this previous, and so she got the ticket out of her purse
and actually handed me more than one, but I wasn't with my other kids
and I gave one back, gave it to the lady, came back around and sat in
the seat two seats from her.

Q. Did you and she embrace or kiss?

A. No.

Q. And other than exchanging tickets, there was no conversation
between you, true?

A. True.

Q. And you went, and you sat down and began watching the recital and
then at some point you saw that fathers had flowers for their children
and you did not have any, so you decided to get up and drive to the
local flower shop and get some flowers, right?

A. Yeah. Much later this took place, and I --

Q. You were there for about an hour and a half, right?

A. I don't know, I would say -- I think I fell asleep at one point. I
think it was about an hour.

Q. You went out and got the flowers and came back, right?

A. Yeah. I noticed I had ten dances before her so I rushed and got
some flowers.

Q. Then when the recital was over, Nicole did not talk with you at
all, right?

A. No.

Q. And in fact, she kind of gathered up the children and whisked them
away rather quickly?

A. Nicole disappeared, and her mother was running around kind of
frantically saying where's Nicole, I thought we were going to dinner.
I was talking to her father and Ron Fischman, and then at some point
we saw Nicole's car come, and when we went to the car, they got in and
left.

Q. And again, you had no conversation with Nicole?

A. No, she was in the car and I was out with her family.

Q. In the meantime, Cora Fischman and/or Ron Fischman suggested that
somebody take a picture of you and Sydney, right?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we put the picture up.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's another photograph, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. By this time Nicole's in her car?

A. We didn't know where Nicole was at this time. This is directly
after -- I think there was still some dances going on. I believe the
parents, Mr. and Ms. Brown, were still in the -- inside. Nicole had
gone. And I was out there with Ron and I think Cora, and Sydney was
running around with her girlfriends and stuff, and -- and Ron said,
come on, you guys, take a picture, and unfortunately, it was his last
film, and he took the picture of us.

Q. And Nicole was not around when this picture was taken?

A. No.

Q. There was no conversation between you and Nicole during this time,
right?

A. No.

Q. Now, you see your left hand there, sir, you're not bleeding at all?

A. No.

Q. And you do not have any cuts on your finger at this time?

A. I don't believe so, no.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put up the next photograph. Exhibit what,
Steve?

THE COURT: Give us a number on that previous one.

MR. FOSTER: 826, and 195 on the board -- screen.

(Exhibits 826 and 195 displayed.)

Q. Is that your left hand?

A. I believe so.

Q. No cuts at all on that left hand as of what, 6 p.m., 6:30 p.m. on
June 12, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. It's also true at this point in time, 6:30 p.m., June 12, you had
not seen a single blood drop come from your body that day, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: You can take the picture off.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Nicole's family had plans to go with Nicole and
the children to have dinner, right?

A. I really didn't know, other than what Judy was saying.

Q. Did you know?

A. What I -- what I knew was that Judy Brown was sort of in a panic
because she thought, at one point, she said I guess we're not going, I
thought we were going to dinner, I guess we're not going, where's
Nicole. And that was my first real indication that they had a plan to
go to dinner.

Q. Well, in fact, sir, there had been plans made to go to dinner
before this Sunday, on June 12, correct?

A. The way Judy was --

Q. Did you know that?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Before?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Wasn't the original plan that everybody was going to go to
Jackson's, where your son Jason worked as a chef, he could not get off
work that night, and so the best thing would be to take everybody to
Jackson's and the family, including you, would have dinner there?

A. I didn't know that, no.

Q. And isn't it true that Nicole canceled dinner at Jackson's on
Saturday, June 11?

A. This is the first that I've ever heard that, yes.

Q. And if your son said that in his deposition, you wouldn't quarrel
with that, would you?

A. No. I know he never told me that.

Q. Now, on Sunday, at any point in time, are you saying that you had
no idea that the family was going to go out to dinner after the
recital?

A. No. I never -- I hadn't given it any thought so, no, I had no idea.

Q. You hadn't been invited to any dinner?

A. I hadn't talked to anybody about any dinner.

Q. So in the 2:18 to 2:22 phone call, during the time -- for part of
that time you spoke to Nicole, she did not, in that call, invite you
to dinner, true?

A. True.

Q. And at no time during the recital did she invite you to dinner,
right?

A. That's true.

Q. And nobody invited you to dinner that night?

A. Judy Brown said something about going to dinner, and when Nicole
drove up she turned to me and said words to the effect you're not
going to dinner with us, are you? And I started laughing, I said, no,
Judy. That's when you see Lou and I talking cause essentially that's
what I was teasing Lou about, staying away from his daughter.

Q. You were going to stay away from Nicole?

A. Yeah, that I had gone pretty much back to him and I talked to Lou I
was back with Paula.

Q. You didn't -- you didn't go to dinner that night with the family?

A. No, not at all.

Q. And you left that recital alone, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And in fact, you tried to get your friend Ron Fischman to go to
dinner with you, didn't you?

A. No. I asked Ron what he was up to and he said -- Ron was having a
real tough time.

Q. Did you ask Fischman to go to dinner with you, yes or no?

A. I asked him what was he doing and he said -- he was kind of -- kind
of commiserated, something about having to have dinner with his, you
know, not that it was bad with his family, but he and his wife was
having some big, big problems.

Q. And you said glad to be out of the mix, right?

A. I told him I was glad to be out of the mix.

Q. And then you drove home to Rockingham and got there a little before
7 p.m., right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you got to Rockingham using your home phone you picked up
a message from your cell phone voice mail system, true?

A. No, I never picked up a message.

Q. Now, you have this kind of system on your cell phone, sir, at the
time I'm referring to of course, where if they call your cell phone
and nobody answered it would go into a voice mail, and they could
leave a message for you, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you could retrieve those messages, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And at 6:56 p.m. on June 12, after you got home to Rockingham, you
called your message manager and you retrieved a message spanning five
minutes?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And the only message that had been left on that machine all day was
one at about 7:00 a.m. in the morning from Paula Barbieri, right?

A. Since I never picked up any messages, I don't know.

Q. And if phone records indicate, sir, that that 6:56 call was placed
from your home, would that refresh your recollection?

A. No, it wouldn't, because I know at about that time, I was in my
kitchen talking to Kato.

Q. You -- at exactly 6:56 you can remember that specifically, can you?

A. I believe I came back home, and I was trying to make these calls
again, and Kato -- Kato came in and we were talking.

Q. You recognize the phone number 476-4619?

A. It may have been one of my numbers.

Q. It was your number on June 12, 1994, true?

A. It may have been one of my numbers.

Q. Okay. I'd like to show you a document

MR. PETROCELLI: Mark it as the next in order.

MR. LAMBERT: 2217.

THE CLERK: 2217.

(The instrument herein described as O.J. Simpson's phone records was
marked for identification as Defendants' Exhibit 2217 for
identification.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mine has got handwriting on it, but I'm going
to show you mine cause it's easier, okay?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. You see a reference to picking up your message at 6:56?

A. I see numbers.

Q. Now, your message manager started with a 999, correct? On the phone
bills, that's what it showed?

A. I sort of remember that, yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. BAKER: Can you tell us what this is supposed to be.

MR. PETROCELLI: From the -- it was produced pursuant to subpoena from
the phone company.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You see 18:56, sir, right there?

A. Yes.

Q. That's 6:56?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. 476-4619?

A. Yes.

Q. Message 999. That's to your message manager?

A. I believe 999 would have been numbers to my message manager.

Q. So does that help you remember that at 6:56 p.m. from your home
phone number 476-4619, you called and picked up a five-minute message?

A. No, I didn't pick up any message.

Q. The records than are incorrect?

A. I don't know about the records. I know I was at home. I know I
checked my home message machine. And I know Kato came in, and Kato and
I was talking.

Q. Well, let's talk about what you told the police detectives the next
day.

Now, by the way, in terms of this police statement, you spoke to
Detectives Lange and Vannatter the next day at around 1:30 p.m.,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And that was hours after you had left Los Angeles to go to Chicago
and come right back, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And by the way, sir, since that day on 6/13, 1994, you spent a lot
of time learning the facts of your case, did you not?

MR. BAKER: Objection, argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I paid attention to my case, yes.

Q. And on 6/13, 1994, 1:30 p.m., talking to the police officers, that
was the first time you were questioned about Nicole's murder, other
than perhaps by your lawyers; isn't that true?

A. Well, I took, to that degree, yes. I think the police officers, one
of my subsequent calls that morning, asked me some questions.

Q. But that was the first substantive interview that you had with
anybody other than counsel, right?

A. Well, you have to ask that question again.

Q. 6/13, June 13?

A. Yes.

Q. On Monday at 1:30 p.m.?

A. Yes.

Q. About 15 hours after you left or -- excuse me. After -- about 12 to
15 hours after you left LA, that was the first time you spoke to
anybody about the facts of the case in detail, other than your
attorneys, perhaps?

A. You're not just talking about the tape; you're talking just any
time that day?

Q. Correct.

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And since that time, you have reviewed countless documents
related to this case, have you not?

A. I've read most of the reports, yes.

Q. Lots of discovery materials, right?

A. Most of the reports, yes.

Q. You've listened to many, many, many witnesses testify in court,
right?

A. Yes, I was there every day.

Q. And you know their testimony cold, don't you?

A. Not necessarily. Some I may know better than others.

Q. But you know it better than your lawyers do, don't you?

MR. BAKER: I object to that question.

(Laughter)

THE COURT: You may answer if you know.

MR. BAKER: Well, I think that calls for sheer speculation. And I am
appalled -- I'm appalled that Mr. Petrocelli would ask that question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You know the case inside out, right?

A. I think I've read most of the stuff, and I'm certainly up on the
case.

Q. And you know that witnesses like Allan Park -- what witnesses like
Allan Park have testified to?

A. I was there the day he testified. I haven't read anything about
him.

Q. Can I have you --

A. Can I finish my answer?

Q. Please, I'm sorry.

A. I was there the day he testified, but I haven't read anything that
-- or his testimony since then.

Q. You're familiar with the times that he gave, you're familiar with
times that he testified to, true?

A. I know the only time I can recall is he said he got there about 20
after and --

Q. 20 after what?

A. 10. And that somewhere around 10:50 or so he saw someone.

Q. And you've talked to a lot of people about the facts of this case
since June 12, 1994, true?

MR. BAKER: Objection, vague, ambiguous, Your Honor. Also invades the
attorney-client privilege?

THE COURT: He doesn't ask about attorneys.

Overruled.

A. I don't get lots.

Q. Well, by the time your deposition was taken in this case, January
1996 --

A. Yes.

Q. -- you had learned a tremendous amount about the evidence in this
case, true?

A. I was at the trial every day.

Q. So what I said is true?

A. Yes, whatever I heard, you know, while I was, you know, while I was
in the court.

Q. You were familiar with things like cell phone calls and cell phone
records, right?

A. Yes, I -- Yes.

Q. You were even familiar with things like hearsay laws, weren't you?

A. Yes.

Q. Learned all about that, didn't you.

A. I don't know if I learned about it. I just heard it in court so
much that I had, I guess, a layman's, you know, knowledge of it.

Q. Okay. Well, let's go back to June 13, before you acquired all of
this information.

You told Detectives Vannatter and Lange that you did, in fact, pick up
a message from Paula Barbieri, true?

A. Yes.

Q. You said, quote --

MR. PETROCELLI: Page 13, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Um --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

"And then I checked my messages. She had left me a message that she
wasn't there, that she had to leave town."

Q. End of quote.

And you made that statement, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that statement was true when you made it, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were at Ms. Barbieri's deposition, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you heard Ms. Barbieri testify that she left you -- excuse me
-- you left her three messages acknowledging the message that she had
left you earlier in the morning?

A. I don't think that was what she said.

Q. Did you hear that testimony?

MR. BAKER: Objection?

A. I didn't hear it the way you just said it.

MR. BAKER: This is an improper way for him to get testimony into this
case.

MR. PETROCELLI: He was present, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You heard her testify that you left her three
messages -- at least three messages that day, correct?

A. That day, yes. I thought you were talking about after a certain
time.

Q. And in the messages you said in substance, hey, what's wrong, last
night we were talking about filling rooms with babies, what's wrong.

You heard her testify to that, correct?

A. In the last message at 10 something, yes.

Q. And you left her that message because you had received her message
by 6:56 p.m. telling you that the relationship was over, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Now, about a half an hour after that 6:56 p.m. call from Rockingham
to your message manager, you made a call to a woman named Gretchen
Stockdale, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And that call was made at 7:32 p.m., correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And in that call you left Ms. Stockdale a telephone message, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And in substance you said, hi, this is O.J., I'm unattached for the
first time in my life, true?

A. Or words to that effect, yes.

Q. And the reason you left that message to Gretchen Stockdale that you
were unattached for the first time in your life is because on that day
you were unattached from Nicole and you were unattached from Paula
Barbieri, true?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you had just found out from Paula that that relationship was
over, and now you were without both women for the first time in your
life, correct?

MR. BAKER: Objection, without foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And that's why you told Gretchen Stockdale you were unattached,
right?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Did you consider Paula an attachment at that time?

A. I don't think Gretchen knew about Paula and I.

Q. I didn't ask you if she knew about Paula.

I asked you, did you consider yourself attached to Paula when you left
Gretchen Stockdale a message at 7:32 saying you were unattached?

A. I wasn't referring to Paula when I was talking to Gretchen.

Q. So even though you were then involved in what you say was a serious
romantic relationship with Paula Barbieri, you didn't regard that as
any sort of attachment; isn't that true?

MR. BAKER: He has not said that, Your Honor.

Object, it's without foundation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLIO) You were involved in a serious relationship
with Ms. Barbieri at that time, true?

A. Paula and I were attempting to see if we could put our relationship
back together.

Q. She came out to your house and you had what, an interior decorator
up to Nicole's bathroom or your bedroom, and talk about redecorating;
isn't that true?

A. That's not why she came there, no. She was at my house -- I was --
had an interior designer talking to me, and Paula came up, and Paula
made a suggestion or two.

Q. Well, the idea here was that you were going to try to put your
relationship back together again with Paula now.

A. Paula wasn't going to move into my house and decorate my house, no.

Q. But the intent was to resume a serious relationship with her?

A. Well, I hoped that we could get back together, yes.

Q. And you still thought you were unattached, right?

A. Well, I felt unattached with Nicole, of course, and that was the
last conversation I had previously had with Gretchen.

Q. You said unattached with Nicole, of course. What do you mean "of
course"?

A. That was the last conversation that I had had with Gretchen a few
weeks previous, and I think she had left me a message at some point,
and I was returning her call; had nothing to do, and I returned her
call.

Q. After you left that message to Gretchen, you then tried Paula
again, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you called from your Rockingham residence at 7:53 p.m., right?

A. That's what it says, yes.

Q. Then at 8:55 p.m. you made another call to your message manager to
retrieve another message, did you not?

A. I don't recall doing that at all.

Q. Or to check your messages, correct?

A. I don't believe that happened at all.

Q. Then you called Paula Barbieri's home number two more times, right,
8:58 and 8:59, all on the June -- evening of June 12?

A. Possibly, yes. I'm not sure of that.

Q. Well, your phone records show that?

A. Yeah, I -- but I may have.

Q. What do you mean, you may have?

A. I may have called, as you can see how close they are, sometimes you
can start making a call and then somebody calls you or something is
happening then, and then you -- then I tried to call right back.

Q. Do you remember if that occurred?

A. No. I just see that I wouldn't have called her one minute apart and
not, obviously, listened to a message unless something had distracted
me so I had to redial.

Q. Now, during this time you're home alone and Kato Kaelin has left
and gone out to his room or to a Jacuzzi, whatever, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And in the meantime, you had gotten a phone call from your
housekeeper, Gigi, indicating that she wanted to stay down at Knott's
Berry Farm, where it was the Philippino New Year, or something like
that, and you gave her permission to take the night off, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So there was nobody home that evening except Kaelin, who lived in a
separate guest house, right?

A. Yeah. I assumed he was home, yes.

Q. And he didn't have a key to your place, right?

A. No. He had a key to the gate and to his room.

Q. Let me go over something about your security system, sir, at the
time.

You had an alarm system in your house, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had a keypad outside the front door. And if your house was
alarmed and you were entering the house, you would deactivate the
alarm, from the keypad outside the front door, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That was the only place that you -- that you could use to
deactivate the alarm from the outside, correct?

A. If I put it on, that would be the only place, unless you came
through the garage.

Q. Okay. Now, there's a door in the back of the house that's on a
delay, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So you can enter that -- you can enter that door without triggering
the alarm, but you've got to go and you've got to deactivate the alarm
inside the house, and you have, like, a period of so many seconds to
do that, right?

A. You have to say that again. That didn't sound right to me.

Q. Isn't there a door in the back through which you can enter the
house when the alarm is on, that will not immediately trigger the
alarm?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. And there's a delay on that door, is there not?

A. I don't believe that -- I mean, I have no knowledge that you can
come through that door and it's delayed until you get to someplace.

Q. Deactivate?

A. Deactivate? I don't believe that's so, but I never tried it.

Q. You heard the woman, Sue Silva, so testify at the other trial, did
you not?

A. For some reason, I don't believe that's what she testified to.

Q. Now, the laundry room door's on the side of your house, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, there's no keypad on that door, true?

A. There's no alarm keypad, no.

Q. So, in other words, if the alarm is on in the house and you entered
in the laundry-room door from the side of your house, the alarm would
go off at Westec, right?

A. Depends what side door you come in.

Q. The laundry room?

A. The laundry door, yes, the alarm would go off.

Q. And there's no keypad on the outside?

A. There's no alarm keypad, no.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, your garage has a door that goes out to the side,
also, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's not a door that you -- that you use very much, right?

A. Neither one of those doors did I use much, no.

Q. In fact, that door was jammed with a chest and there was other
stuff on top of that chest?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. There is a lot of stuff in front of that door, was there not, sir?

A. There was some stuff inside, but it wouldn't have jammed the door
because the door opens outward, not inward.

Q. Jammed the doorway?

A. It wouldn't have jammed you from opening the door fully, no.

Q. There was stuff in front of that doorway, right?

A. There was a lot of stuff in front of my garage.

Q. In front of the doorway, including a chest, including things on top
of the chest, true?

A. There were things inside the door, but it wouldn't have jammed the
door at all.

Q. Well, we'll get to that and we'll show you some pictures a little
later on.

A. Okay.

Q. Now, after you made these phone calls on the board there, and while
Kato's in his room and you're alone in the house, you then called a
fellow up named Christian Reichardt, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You called Christian, and Christian at that time was living with a
woman named Faye Resnick, right?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Or they were ending their relationship or something like that,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you asked -- you asked Mr. Reichardt how Faye was, right?

A. I asked him first how he was doing. Then I said how is Faye.

Q. And he told you that Faye was in a treatment center, right?

A. Well, I knew that from what Ron had told me at the recital. And --
and he started to -- he sort of explained what had happened.

Q. Prior to her going to that treatment center -- that was a few days
before she had gone into the treatment center?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And prior to that, she had been spending a few days at Nicole's
house, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when you called up Christian Reichardt, you found out that she
was still in the treatment center and not at Nicole's house, right?

A. I think I knew that. At the recital --

Q. But it also came up in the telephone call, right?

A. I can't recall specifically how -- what he said. I was more
concerned about how he was doing, and I just asked him how is Faye.

Q. Did it or did it not come up in the call?

A. I don't know.

Q. Okay.

Then you told him you were taking a redeye that -- out that night
later on, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And the last call you made during the time frame was one to
Nicole's condominium, true?

A. Yes.

Q. About 9 o'clock p.m. you said?

A. Yes.

Q. And Nicole answered, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you said to Nicole, let me speak to Sydney, true?

A. I may have asked is Sydney asleep yet.

Q. And the phone was put down and Sydney got on the phone, right?

A. Yes.

I think she was in Sydney's room.

Q. And you congratulated Sydney on her dance performance, right?

A. Partially, yes.

Q. Even though you just congratulated her a few hours before?

A. Actually, she came up, I said you were super. She took a picture,
she ran off, so I didn't have time to talk to her.

Q. Ran off because the cars were waiting to take her away?

A. No, ran off because all the kids were running around.

Q. And you told Sydney that maybe you guys might go to Knott's Berry
Farm, or something like that, when you got back from out of town,
right?

A. She had asked previously about Knott's Berry Farm, and I told her
I'd be back this coming weekend, and this would be the weekend I'd
take them to Knott's Berry Farm.

Q. And it is your testimony --

A. Or Sunday, I should say.

Q. Excuse me.

It is your testimony, sir, that there was absolutely nothing said
between Nicole and you in that call at 9 o'clock p.m., June 12, 1994?

A. Absolutely nothing.

Q. Excuse me?

A. Absolutely nothing, other than has Sydney gone to sleep yet.

Q. Not even small talk?

A. Not even small talk.

Q. After you got off that call, sir, you went down to Kato Kaelin's
room, true?

A. I think I went upstairs. I believe I went upstairs. I'm not sure.

Q. Within ten minutes, you were in Kaelin's room?

A. I was outside of his room.

Q. And you beckoned him to come outside, right?

A. Yeah. Kind of leaned over him and kind of yelled or hit his door or
something.

Q. And you had, up in your room, decided you were going to go out and
get something to eat, right?

A. I think I decided that downstairs, you know, before I went and got
my shoes or whatever I got.

Q. Well, you were packing up there around 9 o'clock, right?

A. Before -- before 9:00, yes; I was putting some things together.

Q. You started packing earlier in the day, right?

A. Yes, at time to time.

Q. You were going away for one night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. But you were packing quite a bit that day, weren't you?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Between 7:00 and 9:00, you were packing a little bit here, a little
bit there, right?

A. No. Between 7:00 and 9:00, I went up and decided what suit --

Do you want me to tell you what I did?

Q. What were you packing during that time?

A. I put some things together during that time, yes.

Q. And around 9 o'clock, right before you went out to Kaelin's room,
you noticed that you had a whole bunch of hundred-dollar bills, right?

A. All I had -- I may have had a 50 -- no? All I had was four
hundreds.

Q. And you decided that you were going to need some change when you
got to the airport to tip the sky cap, right?

A. That, and I also knew that they don't take more than $20 -- or at
least they say they don't take more than $20 at fast-food places.

Q. Who's talking about fast-food places? I just asked you about the
sky cap, sir.

A. Yes.

Q. So you knew that you were going to need some change, right?

A. Yeah. I wanted to break a hundred.

Q. So you went downstairs.

And did you ask Kato Kaelin to break a hundred?

A. I said -- yeah -- you got change for a hundred?

Q. Did you expect him to have change for a hundred dollars?

A. Kato's a grown man. I don't really know him that well. I think most
grown men who work may have a hundred dollars.

Q. He didn't have change for a hundred dollars?

A. I think he told me he had -- he said no.

I said, "How much do you have?"

And I -- and I think he said he had $73.

And if he had -- like, if he had $87, I would have just gave him $100,
but I wasn't going to give him $100 for $73.

Q. He gave you a $20 bill, right, sir?

A. Yeah.

I said, "Look, I need change for the sky cap and I'm going to get a
burger."

And he went in, came out, handed me 20, and said, "Do you mind if I go
with you to get a burger?"

Q. Now -- now, you didn't invite him along when you went down there,
true?

A. No.

Q. He gave you the $20 bill and you took it?

A. Yes.

Q. And then he got off the phone?

A. No, I didn't wait for him to get off the phone.

He said, "Can I go with you," and I said "sure," and started in the
house. And I assumed he went in and did whatever he did.

Q. Let me stop you there.

At no time did you tell Mr. Kaelin where you were going to eat, true?

A. I said I was going to get a burger.

Q. You never said anything about where, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you didn't ask him where he wanted to go, right?

A. I didn't care where he wanted to go.

Q. And you then just walked into your house and then out to your
automobile, right?

A. Yeah. We went through the kitchen and out to the car.

Q. Now, normally, you drive your Bronco, right?

A. That's not correct. I drive both my cars.

Q. Well, you told the police that the Bronco's the car you like to
drive?

A. Yeah. I would normally prefer to drive the Bronco, especially if
I'm going to play golf or tootling around, yes.

Q. Like going to a fast-food restaurant?

A. I've done it many times.

Q. You didn't take the Bronco this time, did you?

A. I took the nearest car.

Q. You told the police --

MR. LEONARD: Page?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Page 13, starting at line 3: (Reading:) You got
home in the -- in the Rolls -- in the Rolls? Answer: Yes. And then you
got the Bronco? Answer: Bronco, because my phone was in the Bronco,
okay -- Question: And -- excuse me? Answer: -- and because the Bronco
-- the Bronco is what I drive.

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object. This is out of context.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading:) Question: Yeah? Answer: Yes.

MR. BAKER: Wait. I'm entitled to an objection, Mr. Petrocelli.

MR. PETROCELLI: Wait till I finish my question.

MR. BAKER: This is out of context. This has nothing to do with him
going to get a burger in the Bronco.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. Let me read to you the following --

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, did you not tell the police, I'd
rather drive it than any other car? Yes or no?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And the Bronco is what you usually drive, right?

A. I would say I drove them both probably equally, but the Bronco is
what I like -- I do with my Suburban now -- I possibly tootle around
with it more.

Q. You didn't tell the police you drive them equally; you said, I'd
rather drive it than any other car?

A. I would rather drive my Suburban now than any other car.

I probably drive both cars -- I do drive both cars.

Q. You decided to take your Bentley to a fast-food store, right?

A. I decided to drive the car that was closest when I walked out the
door.

I was a little stiff, as I'm sure Kato will tell you, and I just took
the nearest car when I walked out of the front door.

Q. And you went to McDonald's and you ordered some food, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And by the way, you didn't tell Kaelin you were going to
McDonald's; you just drove there, right?

A. This wasn't -- it wasn't -- I didn't have a date with Kato; I was
going to get a burger.

(Laughter)

Q. I didn't ask you if you had a date.

A. I didn't have a date with Kato.

Q. Do you think this is funny?

A. No. They laughed, not me.

Q. Do you think this is to make jokes?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: I object to this, Your Honor. This is argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

A. No, I don't think any of this is funny. I wish I was anywhere but
here.

Q. Thank you.

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't tell Mr. Kaelin you were going to McDonald's, right?

A. I didn't. No, I did not.

Q. Okay.

And you went to McDonald's and you ordered your food, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Kaelin paid, correct?

A. It was very nice of him; yes.

Q. Then you did not break any change at McDonald's?

A. I didn't use the 20 he gave me, no.

Q. And you didn't have any other change, any other hundreds to break,
right?

A. I had hundreds.

Q. And you didn't break any other change there, right?

A. I think the sign says nothing more than $20.

Q. I didn't ask you what the sign said.

Did you try to break any change? Yes or no?

A. No, sir.

Q. And then you got your food and you had a hamburger and some French
fries?

A. I don't recall ordering French fries. I thought I just had a
hamburger.

Q. Mr. Kaelin had his food in his lap and he didn't eat in the car,
correct?

A. I guess not. I didn't --

Q. You don't remember?

A. I wasn't looking at Kato.

Q. You don't know?

A. We were talking, I was driving.

Q. You don't know?

A. I don't know.

Q. And you ate your hamburger in the car, right?

A. As I drove, yes.

Q. And by the time you were home, you were finished, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And when you got back to Rockingham, you pulled, I take it, in the
Ashford gate and pulled around into your space there, right?

A. Well, I let him out, then I pulled it in the space, yes.

Q. And Mr. Kaelin went off to his room, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you didn't invite him inside to finish eating his food -- Kato,
or anything like that, right?

A. No.

Q. And you testified at your deposition, sir, that as Kaelin walked
away, you got out of your Bentley, and you bent down, and you started
scooping up some lettuce. Do you recall that?

A. Yes, whatever I had dropped.

If you ever try to eat a Big Mac, a double, whatever it was, in a car,
you drop lettuce and stuff. And so consequently, when I got up, I
grabbed a few pieces.

Q. And you did that with your hands, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you were using your hands in the car, right, to drive?

A. Yes.

Q. To eat your hamburger?

A. Yes.

Q. To scoop lettuce up?

A. To pick up lettuce, yes.

Q. And you closed the door to your car and left your Bentley around
9:35 p.m.?

A. I would imagine so, yes.

Q. We now know that because of Mr. Kaelin's records indicating he made
a phone call at 9:37 p.m., yes?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: I object. I don't know if this is a question or speech.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. You've seen those records -- you've seen the records that Kato
Kaelin was on the phone around 9:37 p.m.?

A. Yes.

Q. You knew you were back from McDonald's by then?

A. Yes.

Q. As of 9:37, 9:35 p.m. when you left that Bentley, sir, you did not
bleed in the car, did you, in the Bentley?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. You didn't see any blood in that car, did you?

A. Absolutely -- that's absolutely correct.

Q. You have come to learn that there are tests for the presence of
blood and that tests found there was no blood in that car, true?

A. I don't know if I'm aware of that.

Q. But you had no indication whatsoever, as of 9:35 p.m. on the
evening of June 12, that you were bleeding, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now your car, at this time, was parked on Ashford, was it not?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Okay.

You told the police you normally park on Ashford, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you testified in your deposition that you parked it on
Rockingham sometime between 7 o'clock and 9 o'clock p.m.?

A. That's correct.

MR. BAKER: We talking about the Bronco now?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Excuse me.

You told the police you parked the Bronco someplace on -- at sometime
between 7 o'clock and 9 o'clock p.m., you parked it on Rockingham,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. But you couldn't remember between 7 or 9 o'clock p.m., a two-hour
range, when you did so, correct?

A. Yes.

Well, I -- I could -- I couldn't remember. Yeah, I couldn't remember.
It was somewhere in that period of time.

Q. Did you not tell the police 8 o'clock, something, maybe 7, 8
o'clock -- 8 o'clock, 9 o'clock, I don't know, right in that area?

A. From the time that I got back from the recital to when we went to
get the burgers, somewhere in that -- in between there, I had got my
golf clubs and stuff out of the Bronco.

Q. It's your testimony that you took your Bronco from Ashford, where
it had been parked since you played golf earlier in the day, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And drove it into the Ashford gate -- through the Ashford gate,
into your property, in front of your front door, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And took out your golf club, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Golf clubs?

A. Yes.

Q. And then pulled your car around, right?

A. I think I took it out -- I think I packed up my golf stuff and my
travel bag, which was in my entry, and at -- I don't know if
immediately I did, but at some point after I'd finished doing whatever
was going on at that time, I pulled the Bronco out of the front of the
house.

Q. Now, your golf clubs were in the Bronco because you knew you were
going to Chicago, and you took them from Riviera when you finished
playing golf that day, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your car was parked in the parking lot at Riviera, the Bronco,
right?

A. Sometimes I don't park in the parking lot, so it may have been
parked, you know, on one of the parking circles.

Q. You personally carried the golf clubs, however, from the country
club where you were playing golf there, playing cards and so forth,
all the way to your car, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Carried them yourself, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And what about when it was time to get your golf clubs ready for
your trip to Chicago, all you had to do was walk out to the car on
Ashford, open up the car, take the clubs out, and walk right up to
your front door and leave the car parked where it normally was,
correct?

A. I could have, yes.

Q. You could have done that, right?

A. I could have, yes.

Q. And all it would have involved was just carrying your golf clubs a
short distance from Ashford, right through the gate, right to the
front door, right?

A. Yes.

Q. But you didn't do that, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And what you testified to is, you took -- drove your car in, so you
made a quick right, tight right turn into the Ashford drive, had to
have the gate open all the way, rather than just a little way to let
your car through, right?

A. Yeah. I pushed the button.

Q. Pushed the button, and gates have to open. You drive in, and then
you take your clubs out?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you say you parked it on Rockingham, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you were going to be out of town, and normally, you would park
your car where the mailbox is on Ashford, right?

A. Yes; that's the normal spot that I would park it.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you give me the chart, Steve.

MR. FOSTER: Which one?

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor.

Your Honor, are we breaking at 4:30 or 4:00?

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. PETROCELLI: Are we breaking at 4:30 or 4:00?

THE COURT: I understood both sides wanted to break at 4:00.

MR. PETROCELLI: I would like to, yes.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is Exhibit 116.

(Exhibit 116 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So here's the mailbox on Ashford, right, Mr.
Simpson?

THE COURT: You're hard to see through, Mr. Petrocelli.

MR. PETROCELLI: Good point, Your Honor.

Can you all see?

JURORS: (Nod affirmatively.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Can you see that?

A. You want to use this?

(Indicating to pointer.)

Q. That's all right.

Can you see it? So long as you can see.

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

You pulled your car in from Ashford and unloaded the golf clubs,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you -- a few minutes later, you pull the car out to park
it, right, for the night?

A. Yes.

Q. And you're going to be gone one day?

A. One, possibly two, but the plan was one.

Q. Okay.

And you could have pulled out of the Rockingham gate and parked at
your normal spot on Ashford, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you would have just had to walk in by pushing the gate open,
and go right to the front door of your house, right?

A. Yes.

Q. But you testified in your deposition that you didn't do that,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And instead, you said you pulled out of the Rockingham driveway and
parked on Rockingham, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you said you did so because you wanted to make sure your dog,
Chachi, did not run outside, and you could easily keep an eye out on
the dog if you pulled out of Rockingham, parked on Rockingham, got out
of the car real fast, and gone back inside before that gate closes,
true?

A. Yes, I think that was my thought process.

Q. And now, that gate opens and closes automatically, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So when you open the gate, it stays open for about what, 20, 30
seconds, and then closes, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, your dog, Chachi, is a trained dog, right?

A. No.

Q. Your dog, Chachi, does not usually run outside when the gates open,
true?

A. Not now, but back then she did.

Q. I'm talking about then.

A. Yeah, she went out many times.

I had complaints from the SPCA, if you want to check with the SPCA.

Q. Your dog, when you leave the property every morning to go play golf
-- and if you go out the Rockingham gate, the gates open frequently
and the dog does not run out?

A. Yeah. My habit is to, when I get in the car, to start the car, push
the button for the gate to open, have the gate open, wait till I
notice the gate hinges, before it starts closing, and drive out. That
has always been my habit of driving out of the Rockingham gate.

Q. Your dog, Chachi, another time was somewhat lame, correct?

A. Not as much as she is now, but yes, she was.

Q. And it is true that that dog rarely, rarely went outside the gates
when they opened; isn't that true, Mr. Simpson?

A. That's not true.

Q. And your testimony is that you parked on Rockingham because you
were concerned that the dog might run outside the property?

A. Yeah. I thought if Chachi came out like she did later on when I
came out, I -- if I had drove around the other way, I wouldn't have
known it and she may have been out for a while.

Q. So when you testified at your deposition at page -- where is it --
962, at line 20, Chachi is a relatively trained dog --

A. Yeah. If I called her, she'd come.

Q. That doesn't mean that if you don't call her she's going to run
outside; is that what that means, sir?

A. No. That means if I drove around this other side and she went out,
and I didn't notice she went out, and I went in the house, she would
have been out.

Q. It's your testimony, when those gates open, and if you don't --
you're not there to call her, that dog's going out?

A. She could. I mean --

Q. Could?

A. Didn't -- as I told you, I had numerous complaints from my
neighbors. And if you want to check with the SPCA, they had
complained, and told me that the next time they found my dog out, they
would take my dog.

Q. You already told me.

A. Well, check it.

Q. SPCA.

By the way, when you pulled out of the parking lot to -- out of your
driveway to go to McDonald's, did you also wait to see if Chachi was
going to run out then?

A. Yes. What I did was, as I always did, I got in the car, I pushed
the gate open, started the car, pulled up so Kato could get in, and by
that time, the gate had hinged and I could drive right out.

Q. Now, Mr. Simpson, after you got back from McDonald's at 9:35, the
next time that you ran into Kato Kaelin was about 10:55 p.m.; is that
true?

A. I would guess so.

Q. And about that time, you also encountered a limousine driver, true?

A. I would think so.

Q. Now, between 9:35 p.m. and 10:55 p.m. on Sunday, June 12, there is
not a single living human being who you can identify that saw or spoke
to you; is that true?

A. That's absolutely true, unless somebody drove out and saw me when I
was outside --

Q. Excuse me. Is that true, that there --

A. To my knowledge.

Q. There's not a single living person that you know of who saw or
spoke to you between 9:35 p.m. and 10:55 p.m.; is that true?

A. I would believe that would be true.

Q. You know of no such person, correct?

A. I don't know of anyone who saw me from 7:30 to 9:00, either.

Q. I didn't ask you about 7:30.

9:35 p.m. to 10:55 p.m. you don't know anybody who saw or spoke to
you; is that true?

A. No one was at my house. Unless they were driving by when I was in
my yard --

Q. Sir, I'm not asking about --

A. No.

Q. -- things that you don't know about.

MR. BAKER: I think that's responsive. I think he ought to be able to
finish his answer.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's not responsive.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Answer the question.

THE WITNESS: I'm sorry.

MR. PETROCELLI: It was a very simple question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) 9:35 p.m. to 10:55 p.m., you cannot tell this
jury the name of a single person, living person, that you saw or spoke
to you in that time; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the reason why you didn't get in that Bronco is because you
used that Bronco to go to Nicole's condominium that evening, after you
came back from McDonald's, true?

A. That's not true.

Q. You had gloves; you had a hat; you were wearing a dark sweat
outfit, and you had a knife.

And you went to Nicole Brown's condominium at 875 South Bundy, did you
not, sir?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. And you confronted Nicole Brown Simpson and you killed her, didn't
you?

A. That is absolutely not true.

Q. And you killed Ronald Goldman, sir, did you or did you not?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. And then you got in your Bronco and you drove back the very short
distance to Rockingham, and you parked on Rockingham because you knew
that there was a limousine waiting at Ashford for some time; true or
untrue?

A. That is absolutely not true.

Q. And you got on your property, sir, and you bumped into the wall of
the side of your house at 10:50, 10:51 p.m.; true or untrue?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. And you dropped one of your gloves there; you put other items in a
bag, and you left that bag behind your Bentley to be picked up later;
true or untrue, sir?

A. That's absolutely untrue.

Q. And you walked from the Bentley into your house at 10:55 p.m. and
were seen by Allan Park; true?

A. I believe when I came out, at one point, I thought whoever the limo
driver was would have seen me, yes.

Q. You were walking from the side of your house diagonally to the
Bentley, so you would not be seen by the limo driver, and then you
skipped into your house. Is that true or untrue, sir?

A. That's absolutely not true.

Q. And you dropped the bag right here?

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you went inside at 10:55 p.m. Yes or no?

A. No.

Q. And you dropped a piece of blood near a cable in the back, near the
wall, where you ran into the wall, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you bled on that cable wire, didn't you, sir?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you bled on that air conditioner, didn't you, sir?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you bled all over that driveway and in your Bronco, didn't you,
sir?

A. That is absolutely incorrect.

THE COURT: 8:30, Monday morning.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinions, don't watch any news or read any news about this case.

(At 4:00 P.M., an adjournment was taken until Monday, November 25,
1996, at 8:30 A.M.)


</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-9</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B008-273</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov25.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054117 text/html 260845
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:50:41 GMT
Last-modified: Wednesday, 27-Nov-96 13:50:06 GMT
Content-length: 260649
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/25/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif"
ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings
is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is
viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent
transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed
therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter
assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such
unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that
of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized
transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil
liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or
resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section
69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital
signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the
proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina,
28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 25, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1966
8:50 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Morning.

JURORS: Morning Your Honor.

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you please state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: Orenthal James Simpson.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, the witness on the stand at the time of
adjournment on Friday, November 22, 1996, having been previously duly
sworn, was examined further as follows:

MR. PETROCELLI: Morning, ladies and gentlemen.

JURORS: Morning.

DIRECT EXAMINATION (continued) BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. On Friday, we were talking about your activities on June 12, 1994.
I'd like to return to that, okay, sir?

Before you went to McDonald's with Mr. Kaelin, you tried calling Paula
Barbieri repeatedly from your home telephone, true?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I may have. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you called not from your cell phone, but
from your home phone, inside your house at 753 Rockingham, trying to
get in touch with her, correct?

A. I may have.

Q. You say you may have. What does that mean? Did you or didn't you?

A. I don't recall doing it, but I do know that I put some calls in to
Paula, yes.

Q. And you called her again at 8:58 p.m. correct?

A. I may have.

Q. And you called her at 8:59 p.m., correct?

A. I may have.

Q. And you checked your messages a second time from your house, by
calling your message manager. True or untrue?

A. I never picked up a message from Paula that night, no.

Q. You did check your messages at 6:50, and again at 8:55 p.m. to pick
up messages from Paula. True or untrue?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I don't recall doing that, no.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you recall?

Are you unsure now, sir, or --

A. I know I never picked up any messages from Paula.

Q. You told Dr. Lenore Walker you picked up a message from Paula,
didn't you?

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me put up the board.

This is?

MR. FOSTER: 434.

MR. PETROCELLI: Exhibit 434, which is a listing of your cell phone
calls.

(The instrument herein referred to as Board entitled Defendant's Cell
Phone Calls for the Night of June 12, 1994, was marked for
identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 434.)

MR. PETROCELLI: And I'll also put up this other exhibit.

(Exhibit 2216 displayed, entitled Simpson Telephone Calls - June 12,
1994.)

MR. PETROCELLI: This is Exhibit 2216, which would show all the calls
you made that are reflected on phone bills for June 12.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you have this voice mail system on your
cell phone; you call your cell phone, it call-forwards into your voice
mail to pick up messages, true?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. Okay.

And you see Exhibit 434 shows that you called your message manager at
6:56 for five minutes to pick up a message. Do you see that, sir, on
your cell phone record?

A. I see -- I don't see where it says pick up message. I do see it's
message manager.

Q. You do see 6:56 message manager, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you also see it again 8:55, message manager, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And CF stands for call forward, right, on your bill?

A. I would assume so, yes.

Q. And the reason those entries are on your bill is because you twice
picked up messages from your house at Rockingham. True or untrue?

A. That's untrue.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put up -- what is that exhibit?

MR. FOSTER: 2217.

THE COURT: 2217.

(Exhibit 2217 displayed on TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, sir, I already showed you the entry for
1856. At 1856, which is 6:56, true?

A. Yes.

Q. You see the phone record there, 6:56 from your telephone number,
476-4619, Area Code 310, which was your phone number at that time,
correct?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. Okay. And at 2055 -- that would be 8:55 p.m., right, sir?

A. I would assume so.

Q. Shows another call from your home phone, and your cell phone
indicates 8:55, message manager another minute.

A. Yes, I see that.

Q. Do you see that?

A. Um-hum.

Q. And by the way, do you also see that you called at 8:58 and 8:59,
the number of Paula Barbieri, a 305 cell phone number. That was her
cell phone number, right, from Palm Beach, Florida or wherever she
lived, Panama Beach, or wherever it was?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

So you made all those phone calls at the time shown on these cell
phone records, didn't you?

A. I would assume so, yes.

Q. You'd include picking up messages from Paula, true?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you told that to Dr. Lenore Walker, didn't you?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Incorrect.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you not tell Dr. Lenore Walker, on February
25, 1995, the following: From her notes -- she was taking notes,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. You saw her taking notes, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And she was working for you at the time, right?

A. I believe the defense, yes.

Q. "Called Paula, not home.

"Call forward on car phone message from Paula. Whole long message
about golf. Don't see you. He's not sure if in Arizona or Las Vegas,
or if angry with him. He listens to message. Kato goes by house."

You told all of that to Dr. Lenore Walker, didn't you, sir?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you told Dr. Lenore Walker that you got a whole long message
about golf from Paula Barbieri, true?

A. That's untrue.

Q. You also told Dr. Lenore Walker that just about that time, Kato
walked by, true?

A. I assume so.

Q. And Kato walked by your house about 6:56 p.m. after you got back
from the recital, true?

A. I know after I was back from the recital, Kato came in.

Q. In fact, you testified in this courtroom on Friday, that it was
exactly at 6:56 that you were in the kitchen with Kato, and you just
happened to remember that time exactly, didn't you?

A. No, I didn't say exactly. I said about that time. It was about the
time I saw Kato.

Q. Now, you deny under oath, after looking at these cell phone records
and hearing Dr. -- hearing from Dr. Lenore Walker's notes, that you
did not pick up the message from Paula, a whole long message from
Paula? You deny that?

A. That's correct.

MR. BAKER: I --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You deny that?

A. I deny I didn't pick it up on that cell phone; that's correct.

Q. Your story is that you --

MR. BAKER: I object to that.

MR. PETROCELLI: -- you --

MR. BAKER: I object to anything calling "your story."

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Your story, sir, is that you -- well, by the
way, back up for a second.

You told the police, as we discussed Friday, that you picked up a
message -- you picked up your messages, right?

A. I believe so.

Q. And at the time you told that to the police, hours after -- that
was hours after Nicole's death, right?

A. I assume so.

Q. Before you had met with teams of lawyers and investigators and
defense experts, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And before you had reviewed cell phone records, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you told the police that you picked up -- you said:

"I checked my messages. She had left me a message that she wasn't
there, that she had to leave town."

And you were referring to the message that you picked up on your cell
phone voice mail at 6:56, true?

A. Untrue.

Q. Now, your story, sir, told in your deposition earlier this year, is
that, well, you did get a message from Paula, but it was when you
called her phone machine and there was a message on there for anybody
who would call her machine, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And just like when you call my house and I say we're not home right
now, please leave a message, that sort of message, right?

MR. BAKER: He wouldn't call your house.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That sort of message?

A. That's correct.

Q. You want to tell this jury under oath, that when you called Paula's
machine, the number anybody could call, there was a whole long message
about you and about golf and about her being unhappy and so forth. Is
that the story?

MR. BAKER: Compound.

A. That's -- that's incorrect.

Q. There was a whole long message on your (sic) machine directed to
you; is that the story?

A. I believe it was directed more to me, but it wasn't about golf, no.

Q. But anybody could listen to it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And it's all about you, right?

A. No, it was about her being out of town.

Q. So when Lenore Walker wrote in her notes, a whole long message
about golf, don't -- you say it's all false, right?

A. That's --

Q. False?

A. Yes, it's false, yes.

Q. Is it true that you and Paula had been fighting a bit about golf,
sore subject? That's true, right?

A. Not then, no. That's incorrect.

Q. You fought in Palm Springs about it, didn't you?

Mr. Baker pointed that out in her deposition?

A. Previously, Paula would get upset when I went and played a lot of
golf, yes.

Q. Including the morning of June 12?

A. No.

Q. You didn't spend the night together and you're going to play golf
in the morning; sore subject, true?

MR. BAKER: I don't know what question you want him to answer; they're
all compound, argumentative. I wish he would ask one question and
allow him to answer.

THE COURT: Ask one please.

THE WITNESS: Can you reask it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) The subject of golf was a sore one at that
point in time, the last three weeks of Nicole's life; true or untrue?

A. I can't answer that true or untrue. When Paula, often -- me playing
golf was a problem, but it was not a conversation either her or I had
that weekend.

Q. Now, the truth of the matter, sir, is that you were desperate to
get in touch with Paula because she had left you, true?

A. False.

Q. And you were trying all day to get in touch with her, call after
call, after call, as these records show, true?

A. That's not necessarily true, no.

Q. And there are more calls, local calls not reflected on these
records, that you made to her, trying to get in touch with her all
day, true?

A. I wouldn't know. I tried her in my car and I tried her a few times
from my house.

Q. And the reason you were trying to get in touch with her is because
you were feeling alone on that evening, weren't you, sir?

A. That's not true.

Q. You told that to Tom Lange on the 17th of June, from your (sic)
Bronco, that you were feeling so alone, didn't you?

A. That's not true.

Q. Well, we'll get to that.

And you blamed Nicole for feeling alone, sir, didn't you?

A. No.

Q. You blamed Nicole because your relationship with Nicole was over,
true?

MR. BAKER: There's no foundation.

A. It had been over for a month.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And had been over for how long?

A. About a month.

Q. About three weeks, to be exact, as of the 12th of June, true?

A. It officially -- when I looked at a calendar later on, it was
Mother's Day.

Q. About three weeks to the day, to June 12, not about a month; about
three weeks, true?

A. I know when we officially split was the 12th -- the 10th or the
12th.

Q. You told the police on June 13, that you and Nicole split three
weeks before June 13, which is about May 22, true?

A. If I said -- I did say that, but I was just approximating.

Q. You did say three weeks, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You said it more than once, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And three weeks from June 13 does -- is not May 10, but May 22,
correct?

A. I would assume about that, 21 days.

Q. And finally, you blamed Nicole because your relationship with Paula
was now all messed up, true?

A. I can't answer that. You say "now all messed up," which I don't
understand.

Q. Evening of June 12, 9 o'clock p.m. to be exact, you blamed Paula
because -- you blamed Nicole because your relationship with Paula was
over?

A. No, I didn't believe that.

Q. You blame Nicole for your problems with Paula?

A. Nicole was a problem with Paula.

Q. Now, we've already talked about going to McDonald's, not going to
get back into that, except to ask you this:

When you went out to McDonald's, from your house, you went out the
front door and you set the alarm, didn't you?

A. I thought I did, even though I heard Kato. I thought I did, yes.

Q. And you told that to Lenore Walker on February 25, 1995, that you
went out the front door of your house and you set the alarm to your
house, true?

A. I thought I did.

Q. Okay.

Now, and by the way, when you went to Kato's room that night to go out
and get a burger, your state of mind at that time was, you were going
to go out alone, not with him, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you made a point of telling him you were going out, right?

A. I told him why I needed change, yes.

Q. You told him you were going out to get a burger, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you never once before this point in time go to Kato Kaelin's
room to tell him you were going anywhere, true?

A. And I didn't that night. That was not my purpose.

Q. But you never went to Kato's room on any other occasion and told
him you were going anywhere, true?

A. True.

Q. This was the very first time in your life you went to Kaelin's room
and said I'm going to get a burger?

A. True.

Q. Now, when you got back from McDonald's, you made a call, another
call, your final call to Paula Barbieri at 10:03 p.m., true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you're leaving her messages in a number of those calls, aren't
you?

A. I think I may have left her -- I'm pretty sure I left her one early
on and then I believe I might have left her one after. I may have. I
know if I did it wouldn't have been more than a couple messages, maybe
once for -- once after the recital, and I know I did at 10.

Q. Page 8, 9, 12 through 13. I want to talk about this 10:03 time
period now.

A. Yes.

Q. When you spoke to the police detectives on June 13, hours after
Nicole's murder, you told the police detectives that you made a phone
call to Paula driving over to her house in your Bronco, from your cell
phone.

True?

A. I don't think that was the 10:03 call. I believe that we were
talking about earlier.

Q. Excuse me, sir.

Answer this question: When you spoke to the police on June 13, hours
after Nicole's death --

A. Yes.

Q. -- you told the police that you, after the recital --

A. Okay.

Q. -- made a phone call while driving over to Paula's looking for her,
from your Bronco, the car you'd rather drive than any other car, using
your cell phone, true?

A. I don't think I said from my Bronco, but I did imply that I was
driving to Paula's right after the recital and I made a call to Paula.

Q. You implied it or you said it?

A. I don't recall but I know it was implied.

Q. Let me read it to you. Page 8. (Reading.)

"Q. Where did you go from there, the recital?"

MR. PETROCELLI: I'm going to skip at the judge's request the "ums" and
"greats."

Mr. Baker, I'm at page 8.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

"Where did you go from there, O.J.?

"Home. Home for a while and got in my car for a while, tried to find
my girlfriend for a while. Came back to the house."

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Again, page 9. (Reading.)

"After the recital you're referring to?

"I came home, and then I called Paula as I was going to her house and
Paula wasn't home."

MR. PETROCELLI: Page 12 and 13.

MR. BAKER: Well, that -- read the questions and the answers.

MR. PETROCELLI: I was trying to shorten it up. If you want me to read
the questions and answers, I'll be happy to, Mr. Baker. I have no
problem with that.

Okay. Let's start at page 12.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

"QUESTION" --

MR. BAKER: Can you give me a line, please.

MR. PETROCELLI: Yeah. We'll start it at line 23, referring to did he
take it to the recital, meaning the Bronco.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) (Reading.)

"Did you take it to the recital?

"A. No.

"Q. What time was the recital?

"A. Over at about 6:30.

Like I said, I came home, I got in my car, I was going to see my
girlfriend, I was calling her and she wasn't around.

"Q. So you drove the --

"A. Bronco.

"Q. You got home in the Rolls, in the Rolls --

"Yeah.

"Q. And then you got in the Bronco?

"A. Bronco, 'cause my phone was in the Bronco.

"Okay.

"A. And cause it's -- the Bronco is -- the Bronco is what I drive.

"Yeah. You know, I drive -- rather drive it than any other car.

And as I was going over there I called her a couple of times, and she
wasn't there and that she had left a message. And then I checked my
messages, she had left me a message that she wasn't there, that she
had to leave town. Then I came back and ended up sitting with Kato."

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You told the police you drove to Paula's after
the recital, in your Bronco, and made a call to her from your cell
phone, true or untrue?

A. True.

Q. The only time after the recital that you have any cell phone calls
to Paula is at what time, looking at your cell phone records?

A. 10:03.

Q. So, sir, you were in your Bronco calling Paula at 10:03, just like
you told the police, true?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Oh, so you lied to the police?

A. No.

Q. You have a different story now. It's different now, isn't it?

A. I think it's more accurate now.

Q. It's different, isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. It's -- now you say you didn't get in the Bronco, and drive to
Paula's, and call her from the phone, true?

A. That's true.

Q. That's what you now say, true?

A. That's true.

Q. Okay. And you now say that of course after meeting with teams of
lawyers and investigators and defense experts and seeing that there
are cell phone records at 10:03 putting you in the Bronco, true?

A. True.

Q. And by the way, at the time you gave your statement to the police,
you were not familiar with cell phone records, were you?

A. I don't understand what you mean.

Q. Well, you testified in your deposition, line -- at page 2144, that
the cell phone bills go to the office and are paid by someone there,
meaning Cathy Randa?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

A. But I understand cell phone records.

Q. Now you do?

A. I always have.

Q. You also told the police, sir -- well, withdrawn.

So your story now, then, is that you didn't make this call from the
Bronco, right?

A. That's correct.

MR. BAKER: Objection, argumentative.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And your story --

MR. BAKER: I object to the form of the question. It's argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And your story now, sir, is that, in fact, your
cell phone wasn't even in the Bronco as at 10:03, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You're now saying that you took it out of the Bronco hours before?

A. That's correct.

Q. Let me read what you told to the police about that subject.

One second so I can get the page number for your counsel.

Here it is. Page 15, at line 22. (Reading.)

"Q. "Do you recall bleeding at all in your truck -- in the Bronco?

"A. I recall bleeding at my house and then I went to the Bronco.

The last thing I did before I left, when I was rushing, was went and
got my phone out of the Bronco."

Remember saying that to the police?

A. I don't think that's complete.

(Counsel hands document to witness.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you remember saying that to the police, yes
or no?

A. I remember saying that and more to the police.

Q. You think this transcript is wrong, is that what you're saying?

A. I know it is.

Q. Had no problem with it on Friday, did you?

MR. BAKER: That's argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You told the police that the last thing you
did, sir, was you, before leaving for the airport, went out and got
your cell phone from the Bronco, because it was in the Bronco, at 11
o'clock, true?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Now you're saying the police statement is wrong because you don't
want the phone to be in the Bronco at 11 o'clock, true?

MR. BAKER: That's argumentative.

A. It wasn't in the Bronco.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You don't want it to be there because if it was
there at 11, it was there at 10, and if it's there at 10, you're in
your Bronco and you're not in your home, and it destroys your alibi?

MR. BAKER: All that is alibi. It's great final argument and great
sound bites, Your Honor, but it's not a proper question.

MR. PETROCELLI: No speaking objections.

MR. BAKER: I don't take legal advice from any adversaries.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What is your story now? By the way, on this,
you didn't get the cell phone when you were leaving, you got what?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, this "what your story now" is so argumentative
and I object to it.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. My cell phone comes with attachments, extra batteries, there's a
little case that I carry it in when I'm -- with an extra battery, and
there's a plug-in you can use in any automobile.

I believe if you got the correct -- if you listen to the tape, and not
your -- that's my answer. That's my answer. And I think I implied that
when I said that to the police. You just don't have it on your
transcript.

Q. Sir, I asked you on Friday if what was recorded on the tape was
accurate and you said it was?

A. No. What was on the tape is accurate, but they don't have the whole
thing.

Q. Now you're saying you didn't get the cell phone when you were
leaving for your one-day trip to Chicago, but you got cell phone
accessories, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That's what you're saying?

A. Yes. My cell phone comes in a package and I need the package when I
travel.

Q. So you specifically remember now, two and a half years later, that
it wasn't -- the phone -- the phone wasn't in the Bronco at 10:03,
right, you specifically remember that now, right?

A. I don't -- I don't get the question. I remember that --

Q. You specifically remember your phone was not in the Bronco at
10:03, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you remember -- and you remember that it was accessories, and
that's what you meant to tell the police, that you went out to get
cell phone accessories for the one-day trip to Chicago, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Let me read what you said at page 16 of your police statement, line
22. I'll start at 16 just for some context. (Reading.)

"Q. So did you do anything -- when did you put the band-aid on it?

"A. Actually, I asked a girl this morning for it and she --

"And she got it?

"Yeah.

"Okay.

"A. 'Cause last night I just put -- I mean when Kato -- When I was
leaving he was saying something to me and I was rushing to get my
phone and I put a little thing on it and it stopped."

Q. Remember telling that to the police?

A. I don't remember telling them, but I read the transcripts.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put this on the Elmo, Steve.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me ask you about this.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put that on the Elmo.

(Transcript displayed on Elmo.)

MR. PETROCELLI: I want to focus on this. Can you do a little better on
that? No, no, no, I want to see the whole thing.

Back, back. Okay. Right there. Move it over.

Okay, can you see that?

(indicating to TV screen.)

THE WITNESS: Yes.

Q. First of all, you're clear in your mind, sir, that the time frame
you are talking about in giving this answer, about getting your phone,
was at the very end of the night when you were leaving and Kato was
talking to you, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you told the police, I was rushing to get my phone and put a
little thing on it, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And earlier you said the last thing you did when you were talking
to the police was you got your phone out of the Bronco, right?

A. That's what I said, yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay, you can take it off.

Q. You were calling Paula, driving in your Bronco to Bundy, calling
Paula 'cause you were desperate and you were alone that night, true?

A. Untrue.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Untrue.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You'd have no other reason for calling Paula at
10:03 p.m., you called her all day, true?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

Q. Did you not call Paula all day long starting about 2:12, with your
phone records there?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, vague, ambiguous, asked and answered.

A. I called --

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I called Paula a few times that day, yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you knew that she was gone?

A. No.

Q. Right?

A. Not really, no.

Q. You told Lenore Walker that's Las Vegas or Arizona. I just read in
her notes you told her that February 25, 1995?

A. Among other things, yes.

Q. So you knew Paula wasn't home?

A. No.

Q. You were desperately trying to get in touch with her, weren't you?

A. I wouldn't have called if I didn't think she might have been
around.

Q. What your reason, your story, now, sir, is you were looking for a
ride to the airport?

A. That if she was still in town, that it was still not too late for
her to take me to the airport.

Q. You knew a limo had been arranged by your secretary, Cathy Randa,
to be at your house at 10:45 like clockwork, like always, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So -- so now you say that you made the phone call standing from
where, sir, on the cell phone?

A. I was in my front yard near -- if you have a picture of my front
yard -- near where my Bentley was parked.

Q. Before I show you the front yard, how many phone calls did you make
on your cellular phone all day on June 12, outside of your Bronco?

A. This would have been the only one.

Q. So every other time you used your cell phone that day, 2:12, 2:13,
2:18, 2:22, 2:23, 2:24, you're in the Bronco, right?

A. One ride from the golf course in from the Bronco.

Q. Where your cell phone was?

A. Yes.

Q. And it was still in the car in fact when you came home from the
golf course?

A. That's right.

Q. It was still in your car when you were at the recital, weren't you?

A. That's correct.

Q. Yes. You remember when you say you took it out of the car, the
phone out of the Bronco?

A. Yes.

Q. When do you say, between like 7:30 and 9, thereabouts?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative --

A. Correct.

MR. BAKER: -- when do you say.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. The only call you would like this jury to believe that you made
from your cell phone not in the Bronco, but in your driveway, is at
10:03, right?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

A. That's correct.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

So let's go to the story that you told in your deposition in this
case.

(Referring to Exhibit 116)

Q. You said you pulled your Bronco in to get some stuff out of it,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And by the way, the first time you pulled it in, you just took out
your golf clubs, right?

A. My golf clubs, my cell phone,

Q. Cell phone? Sure about that?

A. Yes, that was about that time that I took it out.

Q. Okay. And you didn't take out the cell phone accessories, did you?

A. No, I didn't look for it.

Q. Just looked for it -- it was right there in the passenger seat.

A. Well, I didn't look for it.

Q. What do you mean? It was right there in the passenger seat; how
could you have missed it?

A. I didn't look for it.

Q. Okay.

So you just get the phone out. And by the way, the phone was just by
the passenger seat too, it was right there in between the two seats
too, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You took one, but not the cell phone accessories?

A. That's correct.

Q. You left the Windbreaker there too, that was over the console,
right?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Okay. You didn't take the Windbreaker out at this time, did you?

A. No.

Q. So you just took out the -- the phone and your clubs, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you went inside, did a little stuff, and you parked your car,
and you claim you parked it on -- on Rockingham at this time, right?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Prior to around 9 p.m. on Rockingham, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You had to make a couple of other trips out to that car that night
to get stuff, didn't you?

A. I think I looked out there one other time.

Q. Well, you looked there for a club, once, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you went out there to get your accessories, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you're sore-legged, stiff that night, want to cut down your
walking time, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That's why you took the short distance to the Bentley, because you
didn't want to walk the distance to the Bronco, right?

A. Not necessarily, no.

Q. That's what you said on Friday; you were stiff-legged, that's why
you took the Bentley?

A. I took the closest car.

Q. And you said you were stiff-legged.

Do you want me to read it?

MR. BAKER: Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you find it?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Said you were sore and stiff, right?

A. I was.

Q. Okay.

A. All day.

Q. All day.

And you wanted to take the shortest car, right?

A. I just took --

Q. Shortest distance?

A. I just took the closest car when I came out of my house.

Q. But you made a lot of trips to that Bronco that night, didn't you?

A. I believe two.

Q. And you had to walk out and get it, too, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you got the phone, you said you put it in your kitchen,
right?

A. Somewhere in my kitchen.

Q. Okay.

Now --

A. Where I normally put it.

Q. It's around 10 o'clock, it's after McDonald's, and you're getting
closer to the 10:03 phone call. Your story is you go in your garage,
passing some time, pick up a club or two, open up the garage door, and
are going to go out to swing some golf balls, right?

A. No, that wasn't my purpose at all.

Q. That's what you did, right?

A. Among the things I did. I hit four or five balls, yes.

Q. Yeah, and as you were going out to the garage to do this and to
look for clubs and other things, you realize you left your phone in
the kitchen, right?

A. I don't think it worked that way. As I said, I wasn't clear if I
picked it up before I went out, or either I came back in and picked it
up when I came out of the house, I had my cell phone with me.

Q. And just so we -- just to satisfy your counsel's request, at page
219, line 14, from Friday's testimony, you decided to take your
Bentley to a fast-food store, right?

"A. I decided to drive the car that was closest when I walked out the
door. I was a little stiff."

A. Yes.

Q. "As I'm sure Kato will tell you. And I just took the nearest car
when I walked out the front door." Okay.

Let's get back to where we were.

You went and got this phone from the kitchen so that you could go
outside and find golf clubs, right?

A. Yeah. I -- I --

Yes, I did pick up the phone, either before I went in the garage, or I
came out of the garage and grabbed it. I'm not really sure which one,
but I did pick up the phone before I came out.

Q. You're not sure about which one, but one thing you will swear on
your oath, you are sure of, sir, is, you went and you got that phone,
didn't you?

A. I went outside, yes.

Q. Are you absolutely positive that you went in the house at some time
-- at 10 o'clock at night and put a phone in your pocket?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you remember that, don't you?

A. Yes.

Q. So then you go outside and you tried to call Paula, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Well, let me ask you something: How many phones do you have in your
house, sir?

A. A lot.

Q. You have a phone in your kitchen?

A. Yes.

Q. You have a phone in the kitchen, where the cell phone was?

A. Near it, yes.

Q. You could have used that phone, couldn't you?

You could have gone into the house, say, you know, what -- instead of
getting my cell phone and walking outside and making a call, why don't
I just use this phone?

You could have done that, couldn't you?

A. I could have.

Q. And you didn't, did you?

A. I often don't.

Q. Who's talking about often? I'm talking about this night.

You didn't do it this night?

MR. BAKER: This is argumentative.

A. That's correct.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you decided to use -- pay more money on
your cell phone instead of using a phone to make a local call?

A. Do it all the time.

Q. Accept you do it all the time.

But you didn't do it all the time that day, did you?

A. No.

Q. The only time you did it that day, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you went outside, you made this -- supposedly made this
call from your driveway.

You also say that you -- well, why don't you tell us what you did? Go
ahead, tell us -- tell us what you did when you left the garage.

A. I grabbed a 3 wood.

Q. Give us as much detail as you can.

A. As I can. And this is as much detail as I can recall.

I grabbed a 3 wood, and I looked at the face of it and I swung it a
bit. And I went to the trunk of my Bentley, where I had another set of
clubs 'cause the purpose of going into the garage was to get a sand
wedge, which is a special league club, and I was playing with a new
set of golf clubs that I had just got from the Calloway people the
previous week.

I was on the road and I didn't like the sand wedge that came to it, so
I was looking for my old sand wedge that I normally use. And I went
into my trunk of my Bentley, where I had a set of clubs.

And I also needed some balls that I play with, a ball called a
Maxflite 100HT. Unless you play golf, you don't understand how
important that is to a golfer, the type of ball that they play with.

Since I had, I believe, a sleeve of this ball, and I normally play two
sleeves a round of golf.

I looked in my trunk, where I had a bunch of balls, and I tried to
find nonscuff balls, and I got about four, five nonscuff balls and put
them aside.

I got a windbreaker and put it aside, and whatever was in my trunk,
and I dropped it on the ground and I took about three or four scuff
(sic) balls, dropped them on the grass that was right behind my
Bentley, and I took a pitching wedge 'cause I couldn't find any sand
wedges at this time. I believe it was right before or directly right
after I put a call in to Paula because if she was around, she could
have driven me to the airport.

And in any event, I chipped those balls. I sculled one; it hit my
playground equipment, and it -- because it was dark there -- it
bounced and I was cringing, because I just got all the dents out of my
Bentley, and I thought the ball may have hit my Bentley.

Then I hit -- I mean, I hit a ball over into my neighbor's yard, put
that club and that pitching wedge back into the trunk of my car, and I
walked out of the Rockingham gate and looked into the back of my
Bronco to see if there was any clubs in there.

My dog had come out. And in that time, as I said, I put that call in
to Paula, my dog went across the street into Mr. Sheinbaum's yard and
did her business in the -- in the -- what she normally does in the
grass, but not grass -- I can't even think of the name of it now --
then we walked around 'cause the gate had closed and I didn't have any
key, and came back in on the other side of Ashford.

I came to -- I -- I can't recall if I went in to the front door then
or the garage, but I put the club away, and I either turned off the
lights downstairs -- if I had already turned out the lights. I may
have turned them off before I went in. But I turned off the lights
downstairs, except for my lamps that I normally keep on, and I went
upstairs.

Q. Now, Mr. Simpson, if I asked you to repeat that, you could do it
word for word, couldn't you?

A. I -- I may be able to come relatively close to that.

Q. You memorized this story, haven't you?

A. I recall, to the best of my ability, what I said.

Q. You memorized it, have you not? You've sat --

MR. BAKER: Objection.

Q. You've sat down, rehearsed it and memorized it?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I don't think I've ever rehearsed it. I told the story before --

Q. And you've had lawyers come down from San Francisco and
cross-examine you in practice sessions, haven't you, to get it
straight?

A. I don't -- I had some lawyers come from San Francisco. What we did,
I think, is privileged.

Q. That's for the Judge to decide, not you, Mr. Simpson.

You had lawyers subject you to practice rounds to get it right --

MR. BAKER: I object Your Honor.

Q. -- didn't you?

MR. BAKER: I object. That's immaterial and it's also privileged if it
ever happened.

Q. These are not --

THE COURT: Practice rounds are not privileged.

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry?

THE COURT: Practice rounds are not privileged.

MR. BAKER: Practice rounds?

May we have a hearing on this, Your Honor?

THE COURT: No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Answer the question, sir.

A. I had lawyers come down. I don't know I wouldn't characterize
practice rounds and -- as practice rounds, when lawyers came down and
we went through what took place.

Q. You don't mean went through with -- these weren't your lawyers.

THE COURT: We're not going into the subject.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) No. But these were not lawyers representing you
at any time?

MR. BAKER: I object to this.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) These were people you never met before that
came out and examined you cold, right?

MR. BAKER: I object to this, Your Honor.

MR. PETROCELLI: They're not his attorneys, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: That's an assertion that is made by Mr. Petrocelli, without
any foundation whatsoever.

Q. Answer the last question.

MR. BAKER: Object to him answering any questions about this.

THE COURT: Last question overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Go ahead.

MR. BAKER: Doesn't the privilege apply in this courtroom to my client?

THE COURT: That portion is not privileged.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please answer the question after the reporter
reads it back you, sir.

MR. BAKER: I wish the Evidence Code applied in here.

MR. PETROCELLI: I would object to these kinds of comments in front of
the jury. They're inappropriate.

THE COURT: Read the question back.

THE COURT REPORTER: (READING)

"Q. And you've had lawyers come down from San Francisco and
cross-examine you in practice sessions, haven't you, to get it
straight?"

THE COURT: That isn't the question.

MR. PETROCELLI: I'll ask it again.

You had lawyers come down from San Francisco who you never met before,
to cross-examine you?

MR. BAKER: I object. There's no time frame. There's nothing in this --
if it occurred, it's privileged communication.

THE COURT: That is overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: Answer the question.

A. I had lawyers come down whom I paid, so they were my lawyers when
they got there. And we talked about a lot of things, and they did
question me on some things, yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did they cross-examine you about this story
here?

THE COURT: Sustain the objection to that.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay. Let's move on.

Now, by the way, this whole story that you just told was in rather
exteraordinary detail.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object. I object to this nonsense, Mr.
Petrocelli putting his spin on what my client says.

MR. PETROCELLI: You would agree --

MR. BAKER: I want --

THE COURT: Excuse me.

MR. BAKER: -- want a ruling on that.

THE COURT: I'll sustain the objection.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You would agree that you have quite an
extraordinary recall of the events that you just related to the jury,
correct?

A. I wouldn't characterize it as extraordinary, no.

Q. Pretty detailed, right?

A. That as best as I can recall, I told the jury.

Q. And you didn't tell the police any of those details, did you, sir?

A. I told the police -- I answered every question the police asked me.

Q. Did you tell the police about chipping golf balls?

MR. BAKER: I object, Your Honor. That assumes that the police asked
him about that.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I don't believe the police asked me --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I didn't ask you if they --

A. -- about what happened after I came back from --

Q. Excuse me, Mr. Simpson. I only asked you if you ever told the
police, for any reason, whether you chipped golf balls that night. Yes
or no?

MR. BAKER: That assumes that there is a question asking that. And to
assert that that occurred is a negative poignant, Your Honor, and I
object to it.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please --

THE COURT: Answer the question.

A. No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I want the question back. I'm going to ask it
again, so we don't have an objection.

Did you, on June 13, hours after Nicole's death, tell the police that
you had chipped golf balls? Yes or no?

MR. BAKER: I object to it again.

THE COURT: Overruled. Answer it.

A. No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you tell the police, hours after Nicole's
death, that you took a walk and that your dog went into the Sheinbaum
lawn and did her business? Say anything -- any of that?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell the police that you made a phone call to Paula at
10:03 from your driveway?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell the police anything about 3 woods and 4 woods and any
of that stuff?

A. No.

Q. Did you tell the police anything about what light you turned on and
off as you went from one part of your movements to the next?

A. No.

Q. And you told that story in your deposition, after you heard all the
witnesses testify and all the evidence, correct?

A. I think my deposition was after all of that.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, compound.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You knew exactly what you had to say to meet
and defeat all the witnesses and evidence that was against you, true?

MR. BAKER: Great sound bite. Horribly argumentative.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) If he has a legal objection, make it. But this
stuff about sound bites is showboating.

THE COURT: Excuse me?

MR. BAKER: This is showboating. Right there is showboating.

THE COURT: Excuse me. That answer is overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please repeat the question.

THE COURT: I'm sorry. I'll sustain that objection.

Ask a question without arguing it, please.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

Now -- now, you -- what time did you take this walk, by the way, when
you went outside your property?

A. The only -- well, obviously if 10:03 was a phone call, it was
approximately sometime around that time.

Q. Well, tell me exactly when it was, as best as you can recall.

You were outside the property on June 12, 1994?

A. I couldn't tell you exactly. I would say sometime between 10:00.
And if the call is 10:03, would be probably sometime five to 10:00 or
10:00 and 10:15 or so, whichever time it took me to do what I just
described to you.

Q. Well, let's get this clear.

First of all, when you went outside the property to take the dog for a
walk or whatever it is that you did --

A. That's not why I went outside the property.

Q. You went out to look in the car?

A. Yeah. I looked in the back to see if there were any clubs. I didn't
see any clubs.

Q. You didn't open the car, did you?

A. No, I don't believe so.

Q. When you walked out to Rockingham and looked inside the Bronco, had
you already made your phone call to Paula at 10:03? Yes or no?

A. To the best of my memory, I did.

Q. When you went out on Rockingham, looked in the car, then you were
-- then, sort of walking along the property on the outside, swinging
your 3 wood, is it?

A. As you asked the question, I may have made the call outside there,
but my memory is, it was in the driveway. It could have been right
when I went outside the gate. I'm not sure exactly.

Q. Now, you're not sure whether it was the driveway or the street?

A. Well, I --

Q. Yes or no?

A. All along the same time. I was walking, so it could have been while
I was walking.

Q. Excuse me. Where did you make the call from, the driveway or the
street?

A. I'm pretty sure it was the driveway, but it could have been as I
went out the gate, also.

I mean, with all -- it was all a matter of minutes, seconds.

Q. Let's talk about the time you were outside here.

You went along Rockingham north, and then you turned what, right on
Ashford?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you came in the Ashford gate, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

You go anywhere else?

A. No.

Q. Now, tell me the time that you were on Rockingham and Ashford,
outside your property. Tell me the time, the whole time.

A. What do you mean, "the time?"

Q. The interval of time, was it 10:00 to 10:15?

Was it 10:00 to 10:30?

Was it 10:45?

Was it 9:30?

When was it, sir?

A. All of this took place sometime, evidently, right before 10:00.

I remember my thought process was, there was still time. If Paula was
there, that she could get there to take me to the airport. So it was
from five to 10:00, 10:00 to roughly -- I would say the whole thing
took place 10 or 15 minutes from going outside, doing this, and
walking back in. So not much more than that.

Q. So what time did you roll into the Ashford Street gate, there?

A. If I -- I mean, I'm guessing now.

Q. Don't guess.

A. You want me to guess?

Q. No, I want you to give us your best recollection sir.

A. I would be guessing.

Q. You don't know?

A. You don't want me to guess.

I guess -- I would say 10:15, maybe.

Q. That's a guess?

A. That's a guess.

Q. It could have been 10:30?

A. No.

Q. How do you know it couldn't have been? You just said you were
guessing.

A. I went upstairs. I recall having a little time before the limo
driver would call me.

My limo drivers always call me 15 minutes before the call time, and
that historically is when I go into gear, doing my final preparations
to leave, and I knew I had time to sit on my bed, which I did when I
went back in the house.

Q. It could have been 10:25 that you entered that Ashford Street gate;
true or untrue?

A. No, it was no later than 10:15. At the worse, it would have been
10:15 to maybe 10:20, but it wasn't anytime later than that, because I
knew I had a little time when I went upstairs to sit on my bed and --

Q. But you were just -- you're just guessing at these times?

A. I'm not saying exactly what time I got in or the time when I came
out of the garage. And I knew it was roughly -- I knew the whole
process took roughly 10, at the most, 15 minutes.

And I can -- I can recall thinking that Paula had time to come, and I
can recall, seeing the phone records, that it had to be around that
period of time, and I knew I was back in the house from the time I
finished that process, certainly no more than five to eight minutes.

Q. So, sir, it's absolutely crystal clear in your mind, as you sit
here and testify before this jury, that you could not have walked past
Ashford Street and entered into this gate at 10:25.

Is that absolutely crystal clear in your mind? Yes or no?

A. Yes.

Q. And the reason it is, is because you know that Allan Park is
sitting out there at 10:23, smoking a cigarette, and he would have
seen you, true?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Sustained.

A. If I would have been there at that time --

MR. BAKER: It was sustained, Mr. Simpson. O.J., it's sustained.

A. I'm sorry.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) When you first put yourself out there in that
street prior to 10:25, you had heard the testimony of Allan Park that
he was out there at 10:23, right?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I'm sorry?

Q. When you first testified?

A. Testified?

Q. Testified.

A. Okay.

Q. You had already heard the testimony of Allan Park that he was out
there at 10:23, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Also, sir, you also heard the testimony of a man named Charles
Cale, that he walked his dog down near this corner of Rockingham and
Ashford?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You heard the testimony he was there between
9:30 and 9:45, correct?

MR. BAKER: I object. This all calls for hearsay. This is not proper
cross-examination.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, are you sure, sir, that you weren't out in
this area here, on Rockingham, between 9:30 and 9:45?

A. Yes.

Q. You're sure, right?

A. Yes.

I'm sorry, when -- you said 9:30?

Q. To 9:45.

A. 9:30?

Q. Yeah, 9:30 p.m. to 9:45, aren't you sure you weren't doing your
little walking during that time?

A. I think 9:30 I may have been driving back from McDonald's.

Q. Okay.

So you're back by 9:35, right?

A. Yeah.

Q. Okay.

So between 9:35 and 9:45, you sure you're not out there on the street?

A. Yes.

Q. So you can definitively tell this jury that when you were outside
that property, it was absolutely after 9:45 p.m., true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you can definitively tell this jury that you went inside the
property before 10:23 p.m., right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that has nothing to do with the fact that those witnesses
testified, in your presence, about times, right?

MR. BAKER: I object. This is argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, you testified at your deposition
that the only time you looked at a clock that night prior to 11
o'clock was when you were sitting in your bed and you saw that it was
about 10:35, 10:40.

Remember that testimony?

A. No, I don't remember if that's the only time I looked at a clock,
but I do know that that's when I looked at a clock.

Q. Well, you --

A. Yeah, for sure, that I looked at a clock.

Q. Well, you don't recall looking at clocks while you were going
outside your walk, do you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. Now, I'm going to start --

THE COURT: All right.

10-minute recess.

Ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about the case, don't form or express
any opinions.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Before the break, Mr. Simpson, we had talked
about your statement to the police, that the last thing you did before
you left to go to the airport was to get your phone out of the Bronco.

Do you recall when I asked you questions about that?

A. Yes.

Q. You recall that you said that there was something on the tape that
indicated that you didn't say that?

A. Yes.

Q. Well, we're now going to play the tape, okay, at this part of the
statement to the police.

MR. PETROCELLI: It is Exhibit, for the record --

MR. FOSTER: 782.

MR. PETROCELLI: 782.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This is the portion at page 15 we were talking
about earlier and this is a tape recording of your interview with
Detectives Tom Lange and Phil Vannatter on June 13, 1994.

A. I want to make a correction.

I didn't say that. I didn't say that. I said it was more to it than
that.

Q. Excuse me. There's no question pending.

MR. BAKER: Further, it is not --

MR. PETROCELLI: Play the tape now.

MR. BAKER: I object. This is not where he said there was more on the
tape.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. BAKER: This is misleading.

MR. PETROCELLI: Please play the tape now.

(Pause for tape to be played.)

(Tape played; not reported.)

MR. PETROCELLI: If you can shut that off.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, did you hear yourself say "the
last thing I did before I left, I was rushing, was went and got my
phone out of the Bronco"?

A. Yes.

Q. And did you hear the question about where is the phone now?

You said, "In my bag"?

A. Yes.

Q. "Oh, you have it --

"Right --

"You have it there, right --

"Yeah, in the black bag.

A. Yes.

Q. You heard all that?

A. Yes.

Q. You did tell the police on the tape that the last thing you did
before you left was you went and got your phone out of the Bronco, you
did tell that to the police, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Yes or no?

A. Yes, and --

Q. Thank you.

A. -- as I told you before, you left out something again in the middle
there.

Q. Did you hear it on the tape, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. What did I leave out?

A. Well, whatever that is, I was referring to my stuff that goes with
my mobile phone there.

You left it out there, and you left it out in repeating it.

Q. Let's hear it again, one more time.

A. That's what I was referring to, the guts to my phone.

Q. So you didn't mean phone?

(Pause for tape to be played.)

(Tape is played; not reported.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Stop.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You said, well, whatever that is, that was in
response to the detective going um-hum, correct?

A. That was in response, in my mind, sitting there thinking whatever
that is whatever it was that goes with my phone.

Q. And when he asked you the next question:

"Where's the phone now?

"In my bag.

"Oh, you have it there, right --

"Yeah, in that black bag.

"You brought a bag with you?"

Et cetera et cetera, even though you were referring, in your mind, to
cell phone accessories, you never once said, hey, wait a second, guys,
it wasn't my phone, it was these accessories, you never once said
that, right?

A. I never once said that, no, but it was all together.

Q. You used the word phone?

A. Yes.

Q. You used the word phone later on in the interview again, didn't
you?

A. That's right.

Q. You didn't use the word accessories or anything else, did you?

A. That's right.

Q. Okay, let's move on.

Now, in your deposition in this case, you testified that after you
went upstairs to your room, you went up, laid on your bed a while, saw
the clock, 10:35, 10:40, running a little late, got in the shower.

Do you recall that?

A. Yeah.

Q. And then, when you're in the shower, you heard the phone ring, from
your shower, right?

A. At this point I thought I heard the phone ringing and --

Q. Now, you have this system in your --

MR. BAKER: Can he finish his answer.

Q. Did you finish your answer?

A. I thought I heard the phone ringing, cause you can't always hear
it.

I looked out and saw the light on.

Q. Thank you. I want to get to that.

You have this phone system where someone buzzes from the gate, it
rings on your phone like a phone call, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you can go over to the phone, you can press the gate button,
and it opens the gates automatically for the person waiting there to
come in, right?

A. Sort of.

Q. Now, you know your limousine driver always comes in through the
Ashford gate, right?

A. Yeah, my main guy would normally come through the Ashford gate.

Q. Main guy being Dale St. John?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you were in that shower that night, and the phone is
ringing, you looked out and you could see this phone right across from
your shower on that wall had the light on, and you could tell it was
the gate, right?

A. Across the room, yes.

Q. Yeah. And you thought it was your normal driver, Dale St. John,
picking you up?

A. I would have assumed it would be Dale.

Q. You never heard of Allan Park, right?

A. No.

Q. And Dale had a limo company called Town & Country, right?

A. I believe so.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you were in the shower and you heard the phone, and you
opened the door, and you saw that it was the driver, you did not get
out and walk ten feet and press the button and let him in, true?

A. Correct.

Q. And in your deposition, you explained that the reason you didn't
let him in was because you believed he knew how to get in on his own,
without you, right?

A. Well, the main reason I let him in --

Q. Is that what you testified to, sir?

A. I don't believe so. I believe -- I think I didn't open the gate
'cause I didn't want the dog to go out.

I don't recall him ever letting himself totally in on his own.

Q. Let's look at 3677, 3679.

By the way, there was only one dog on your property that night,
Chachi, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You believe that Dale St. John could get in by pushing the gate
open, and knew how to do that without being buzzed in, true?

A. I believe that if he was going to walk on the property, as many
times as he has been at my house, he would have known to push on the
gate. I don't believe he has ever let himself in with the car onto my
property.

Q. You didn't let him in that night because you figured that he could
let himself in?

A. I figured he would do what he always did, wait outside.

Q. Now, you -- and your explanation is you thought that Chachi would
run outside the gate and you didn't want to let the driver in from the
bathroom cause when the gate opened your dog would go running outside,
right?

A. Yes, that's -- had been a problem. And I don't know if that was my
entire thought process but historically I would not let him in. My
housekeeper would go out and make sure the dog don't go out and would
let him in. I don't recall ever letting him in from upstairs.

Q. So you just didn't want to let that driver in because you're
concerned about the dog, right?

A. Yes, and normally, on many occasions --

Q. You can --

A. -- he can wait outside.

Q. You can answer yes or no.

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't want to let the driver in while you were upstairs
because you say that the dog would have gotten out, right?

A. Well, I didn't want to get out of the shower, for one, and two, I
wouldn't have let him in even if I was out of the shower.

Q. When you did get out of the shower, you had to walk by your phone
to get out of the bathroom into your bedroom. It's right there on the
wall?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't let him in at that time either?

A. I don't think I've ever let him in.

Q. Who's -- sir, who's talking about ever? We're only talking about
the night of June 12, 10:45, 10:50, whatever time it is.

You didn't let him in that night, did you?

A. That's correct.

Q. You let that guy wait out there, right?

A. Like he always does.

Q. Even though you thought it was your regular driver?

A. Like he always does.

Q. We're not talking about what he always does. We're only talking
about what you did that night?

A. I didn't let him in.

Q. Thank you.

Okay.

You testified in your deposition, sir, that --

MR. BAKER: Page and line.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) 485 through 486, 487 through 488, that your
first interaction with this limo driver is when you came downstairs
half dressed, brought down a suit bag, looked in your golf cover bag
for your black shoes, and it was at that point that you saw the --
actually saw the limousine waiting out there at the Ashford gate,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the pants you had on were those stone-washed light blue jeans
that you wore to Chicago, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had on a pair of shoes, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And it's kind of late, and the limo driver's there, and you're
rushing to get out of the house and get to the airport, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And nonetheless, you say you put on a -- a -- a robe, right?

A. Whenever I get out of the shower I put on a robe.

Q. We're not talking about whenever. Really just focus on this night,
okay?

A. Okay.

Q. You put on a robe, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had pants on, shoes on, and instead of just putting on a
shirt or coming down with no shirt on, you put on a robe, right?

A. I put on a robe first, yes.

Q. Okay.

And by the way, was it a dark robe?

A. I believe it may have been a burgundy and blue striped robe.

Q. But a dark one? Not a light-colored robe?

A. I don't know if it would be considered dark or light. It wasn't
real light, but --

Q. You said dark in your deposition.

A. It could be considered dark, yes.

Q. Okay.

And then you claim you had this dark robe on and stone-washed jeans
and shoes, and nothing on top, having just coming come out of the
shower you say, you then walked downstairs?

A. Um-hum.

Q. Through the front entrance, looked in this golf bag which had been
placed earlier in the evening between the benches there?

A. On the bench.

Q. Or on the bench?

A. Yes.

Q. Picked it up, looked for shoes in the golf bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You saw that they were there?

A. Yes.

Q. Closed up the bag?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you picked the bag up, and sort of motioned and signaled
to the limousine driver, right, to let him know you were there?

A. I picked it up, I kind of put it over the ground and threw it on
the ground.

Q. So you signaled to him?

A. I don't know about signaled to him.

Q. You raised up your golf clubs?

A. I raised it up off the bench, kind of faced him, and threw it down
on the ground.

Q. Intending that he's seen you, to let him know that the luggage was
there, right?

A. I would have felt it would have been impossible for him not to see
me.

Q. So you were intending that he see you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you then walked back in?

A. Yes.

Q. This was the first time you saw the limousine driver?

A. I didn't see the limousine driver.

Q. Car?

A. Car, yes.

Q. Car is parked here on Ashford?

A. Yes.

Q. And, sir, you say that when you did all this, you walked out as far
as -- as the bench -- the end of the bench, right?

A. Well, I picked it up off the bench and I threw it down near the end
of the bench, so I'm assuming -- there's not a whole lot of room there
-- that I would have been at the end of the bench.

Q. So you didn't go beyond the end of the bench, right?

A. I didn't go beyond. I didn't go to the driveway. To say I was at
the end of the bench or not, I wasn't measuring. It's a small area.

Q. You didn't go beyond the end of the bench, right?

A. I don't know.

Q. Well, were you out in the driveway?

A. No.

Q. Were you over here, where the W is, or the A is?

(Indicating to Exhibit 116.)

A. No.

Q. You were back in here?

A. Yeah, somewhere in that area.

Q. And that's when you believe the limousine driver saw you going in
the house, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you -- by the time you testified in this case in the
deposition, you had heard Allan Park's testimony at the preliminary
hearing, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You were familiar with his statement that he gave to your lawyer,
Robert Shapiro, on June 14, right?

A. Probably.

Q. And you even heard him testify at trial, too?

A. Yes.

Q. So you were very familiar with what Allan Park said and in
particular where Allan Park saw you and when he saw you?

A. Yeah, what I assume was me, yeah.

Q. And you're also familiar with the description that Allan Park gave,
that he saw a figure your height, your weight, African-American
person, in dark clothing, you were familiar with that, too, were you
not?

A. I was somewhat confused 'cause I -- somewhere I thought he said,
someone with an overcoat on, at some point.

Q. Despite the confusion, you were familiar with his story that he saw
a person in dark clothing, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. It's for that reason that you are giving this testimony today that
you had this robe on?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. So that you could put clothing on that would meet Park's
description but not have you out in the driveway?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. When you were out here, by the way -- by the way, putting this golf
bench (sic) down -- putting the golf clubs down in between the
benches, you had a gate control box right here, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's what, about 15 feet, 20 feet?

(Indicating to 116)

A. 20 feet, 30 feet.

Q. So there was nothing in the world preventing you, under your story,
from walking the short distance, pressing that button, clutching your
dog so that he or she did not run out, and letting that car in to
permit the limousine driver to do his thing?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I didn't see my dog, so there was nothing to prevent me from going
out, clutching my dog, and pushing that button or pushing any phone in
the house to let him in.

Q. So there was nothing preventing you from walking the short distance
when you saw the driver to press the button and let him in, true?

A. Absolutely nothing.

Q. But you did not do so, did you?

A. Never had. Didn't do so.

Q. I didn't ask you about ever.

You didn't do so that night?

A. No.

Q. Thank you.

Now, are you, sir, sure, by the way, that when you came downstairs in
this robe, that you did not walk over to the Bentley and look in the
trunk for the shoes?

Are you absolutely sure?

A. I'm -- at this point I know I didn't. I may have earlier, I don't
know if I looked for shoes, but I doubt it.

Q. I'm talking about when the limo driver first saw you?

A. No, I didn't, not at all that time.

Q. Your testimony today in court is that you only went outside, out to
the benches, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And not the Bentley?

A. Not the Bentley.

Q. Okay.

Well, isn't it true, sir, that before Allan Park testified at trial in
March of 1995, you spoke to Lenore Walker in February, of 1995?

A. Yes.

Q. And isn't it true, sir, that you told Dr. Lenore Walker, your own
hired expert, that you went into the Bentley for the black shoes,
which Bentley was parked across the driveway, isn't that true?

A. No, I think --

Q. Yes or no?

A. I heard many things. We were trying to figure out the evening when
I spoke to her.

Q. Figure out?

A. No.

Q. Why did you have to figure anything out?

A. Trying to figure out what took place.

Q. Trying to figure out what to say, is that what you said, figure out
the evening?

A. No, incorrect.

Q. You just remember the evening, but you and Lenore Walker sat there
trying to figure it out?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, asked and answered.

A. I don't believe that was her purpose at all.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. What you just said --

A. No.

Q. -- you didn't just say that you tried to figure out the evening?

A. I was trying to figure out what happened that evening and I had
heard --

Q. There's exactly --

A. I had heard Allan Park long before February.

Q. Any question to you -- excuse me.

Is it your testimony under oath before this jury that you heard Allan
Park testify long before February that he saw you only at this point
and not across the driveway? Answer that question --

A. No.

Q. -- Mr. Simpson --

MR. BAKER: Just a minute, Your Honor, this in your face. Maybe Mr.
Petrocelli can go back and get at the -- get at the podium since he's
not doing anything over there except pointing at my client.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson --

MR. BAKER: Would you direct him to get back to the podium if he's not
going to be up around and doing anything with that exhibit around the
board.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You've done the same thing with other witnesses, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Not when I -- when I was using the monitor, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you just said under oath that Allan Park
had already testified by February 1995, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. And what you meant to convey to the jury is that Allan Park had
already given his testimony; that he came outside and picked you up at
this spot, right? That's what you just meant to convey?

A. No.

Q. And --

A. I didn't mean to convey I heard him testify before this day.

Q. And, in fact, when Allan Park testified before your interview with
Dr. Lenore Walker at the grand jury, his statement to -- statement to
Shapiro, At the preliminary hearing, his testimony was that he saw the
figure walk across the driveway, true or untrue?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. You were familiar with Allan Park's testimony and statement that he
saw the figure walk across the driveway, true or untrue?

A. Untrue. I always thought that was Marcia Clark who said that.

Q. But you're talking about before Allan Park ever took the stand in
the criminal case --

A. Whenever he said it, I don't ever recall --

Q. -- in the trial?

A. -- Allan Park ever saying someone walked across the driveway. I
never recall him ever saying that.

Q. That is why you told Dr. Lenore Walker that you went out from the
shower, to the Bentley to get your shoes and that Park saw you walking
across the driveway, true or untrue?

A. Untrue. Incorrect.

Q. You did tell Dr. Lenore Walker on February 25, 1995, that you
walked -- you went into the Bentley not the benches, true or untrue?

A. I believe I told her I was at the Bentley earlier.

Q. You told Dr. Lenore Walker that you went to the Bentley, sir, to
get your black shoes, the same black golf shoes that you were just
describing that you went to the benches to get, true or untrue?

A. I don't believe that's what I told Lenore Walker, no.

Q. Did you not tell Lenore Walker the following: You went into the
shower, you heard the phone ringing, you knew it must have been the
limo driver, you got dressed, you went to put the golf outfit in, you
needed the black socks and shoes, and you went to the Bentley for your
black shoes?

A. No, I don't recall saying that to Lenore Walker.

Q. Would you agree with me, sir, that the description that I just read
to you from Dr. Walker's notes is and represents the exact same point
in time that we're now talking about, getting out of the shower and
going downstairs?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

And you told Dr. Walker that, with respect to that precise period of
time, that you went into the Bentley, correct?

A. No, that's incorrect.

Q. And you did so because you thought that's what Allan Park was going
to say at the trial, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

Q. And, sir --

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And, sir, what is it -- which one is it, sir?
Is it the Bentley, or the benches?

A. I went to the Bentley earlier and I went to -- only as far as
approximately the bench, when I came out and signaled for what I
thought was Dale to come in and get my golf bag.

Q. Well, perhaps you misunderstood my question.

I'm only referring to that moment in this story when you came down
from the shower, donned with this robe, this dark robe with your jeans
on and your shoes on, to check on golf shoes.

Are your with me?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Object to that question on the ground that it's
argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is it the Bentley or the benches that you went
to at this point in time?

A. The benches.

Q. Not the Bentley?

A. Not the Bentley.

Q. The benches?

A. The benches.

Q. Now, you testified in your deposition that after this episode that
we've been describing, you went upstairs and to your bedroom to
complete packing, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You were doing a lot of packing at the last minute here, aren't
you?

A. Always do.

Q. And you told the police that at some point in time you were rushing
and hurrying and packing, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Then you also told the police that you were leisurely packing,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. So you told them both things, right?

A. I was leisurely earlier and rushing at the end as I always do.

Q. You're only going for one night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you went upstairs to complete the packing, the phone rang
again, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And it was the gate, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, this is like what, the third time you're hearing the phone
ring, and it's this buzzing limo driver trying to get to your
property?

A. I don't know. I believe it was the second time I heard the phone
ring.

Q. And this time you answered it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And for the first time you discovered that it was not Dale St.
John, your normal driver, but a new guy that you never met or spoke to
before, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you -- he told you that he was ready to be let in, right?

A. No.

Q. You told him that you had overslept and just gotten out of the
shower, right?

A. Absolutely, not.

Q. Deny that?

A. Totally.

Q. Okay.

And in any event, you hung up the phone, and you did not buzz that
driver in then, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. You let him wait out there?

A. Like I always do.

Q. Wasn't talking about always, sir, just this night?

A. Yes. I let him wait out there.

Q. You let Allan Park wait out there?

A. Yes.

Q. You did not buzz him in even though all you had to do was hang up
the phone and press a button on your phone; isn't that right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And again, the reason is this concern about Chachi running out of
the gate, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

So you completed dressing -- and by the way, you put on a white shirt,
denim shirt to go with your stone-washed jeans, right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you came downstairs and you started getting your luggage
together, right, getting it into the car and so forth?

A. Not really, no.

Q. Now, at some point, sir, there was a piece of luggage behind your
Bentley, wasn't there?

A. Two pieces, yes.

Q. And Kato Kaelin, at one point, went to retrieve the item and you
stopped him and said, no, no, I'll get it, true?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. So if both Kato Kaelin and Allan Park so testified, they are both
lying?

A. Well, about the "no, no I'll get it."

Q. They are lying about that?

A. I don't know if they're lying, but I believe that characterization,
"no, no, I'll get it" -- I think I just said I'll get it.

Q. I'll get it?

A. Yes.

Q. Not no, no?

A. Not no, no.

Q. Okay.

A. Yes.

Q. You sure about that now?

A. Yes.

Q. You're sure?

A. Yes.

Q. And you went and got that bag, right?

A. Well, I went out to -- back to my Bronco, and I went by it and on
the way back if I got it, yes.

Q. We'll talk about going to the Bronco. I want to focus on the bag.

MR. PETROCELLI: Is it inside, Steve?

I apologize. It was locked up. This is Exhibit 899.

(Counsel places Exhibit 899 on witness stand for witness to review.)

Q. This is is a pretty new bag, Mr. Simpson, isn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. Even got like a tag on it still, doesn't it?

A. Yes.

Q. When it was purchased.

A. I don't know if it was purchased.

Q. Now, is that the bag that you went to get near the Bentley, sir?

A. I believe so.

Q. And if Allan Park and Kato Kaelin testified that they never saw
that bag before, they would be mistaken, right?

A. Well, I know Allan Park said he never saw the bag at all, so --

Q. So he would be mistaken, right?

A. He couldn't (sic) be mistaken that he never saw the bag.

Q. How do you know what he testified?

A. I was at the trial.

Q. Were you here at this trial when he testified?

A. No. I was at the criminal trial when he testified, yes.

Q. Now, you're positive, sir, that these new -- this new bag is the
one that was at the Bentley that you retrieved and brought inside the
limo with you?

A. I believe it is. I can't say a thousand percent I'm sure of it
because I normally have a lot of different bags that I get from
various tournaments and things.

Q. You're sure this bag wasn't acquired after the fact?

A. Well, I didn't acquire it after the fact. But I'm pretty sure it
was a bag that was there that night.

Q. You're sure that bag wasn't acquired by someone, after the fact, to
substitute for another bag that has since never been seen?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, there's absolutely no basis for him to ask that
question. I object to it and it's argumentative.

MR. PETROCELLI: Try two witnesses who have already testified.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Well, I would think it would -- I would think not.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Are you unsure of yourself?

A. No. I would think not. I wouldn't know anybody that would do that.

Q. Do what? Do a dishonest thing like replace one bag with another?

A. Yes.

Q. Even if they're on trial for their life?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object. This is great argument.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Wouldn't do such a thing?

A. I don't --

THE COURT: Sustained. Jury is to disregard that last question and
answer.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, I notice a little hesitation in
your voice.

Are you sure this is the bag?

A. That looks like the bag that was there that night.

I -- as you -- when you look at my cars, you'll see many little bags
that people give me during golf tournaments and stuff, so it could
very well have been the bag. It looked like the bag that I pulled out
of my car that night and put a few balls and a Windbreaker in.

Q. Anyway, at the airport, sir, when you got there with regard to that
bag, is it not true that while Allan Park went off to look for a
Skycap, that you went to your trunk, the trunk of the limo, and you
put that bag inside your larger golf bag?

A. Yeah. I actually took the balls and stuff out of it and put it in
my larger golf.

Q. My question is did you put that bag inside the golf bag?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. That's that big golf bag that went with you to Chicago,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, on the question of the luggage, just to get it out of the way
here, you -- when you left for the airport you had basically five
pieces of luggage, right?

You had your golf bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You had your Loius Vuitton bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You had this suit bag that has the initials O.J.S on it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You had this black grip that you -- that's how you refer to it,
like your shoulder bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then the fifth bag you say was this blue bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And when you got to the airport, you did a little luggage
consolidation and you put that blue bag in the golf bag, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So now basically there's four items of luggage, right, four?

A. Yes.

Q. Four pieces left?

A. Yes.

Q. And incidentally, that blue bag you took in the back of the limo
with you, with your black grip --

A. I think when we came out I threw them both in the back of the limo,
yes.

Q. Excuse me?

A. I think I threw them both in the back of the limo when I came out
to go to the airport.

Q. When you went to the airport in the limousine you had that -- you
say it was that bag and your black grip with you in the back seat of
the limo, right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And when you finished putting that in the golf bag, you did a
little consolidation at the trunk there while Park was away, right?

A. Yes, that -- putting all my golf stuff together, yes.

Q. In fact, you're saying you even removed some things from the bag,
didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. And then two pieces were checked with the Skycap, the golf
bag and the Loius Vuitton bag?

A. That's right.

Q. And then you went on the airplane with the grip and your suit bag
carrying a suit for the evening dinner in Chicago, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay, we'll get back to the golf bag a little later on.

Now, when you were downstairs getting ready to leave to go to the
airport, there was some conversation with Mr. Kaelin about noises that
he had heard?

A. Yeah. At one point, I think when I was coming back from the -- at
some point he was talking about noise.

Q. Yeah. And he had said something about an earthquake?

A. I believe so.

Q. Now, you were home at the time these noises were supposedly heard,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't feel an earthquake, did you?

A. Certainly not.

Q. Okay.

So Kaelin expressed to you concern that there might be somebody on the
grounds like a prowler, right?

A. Yeah. He said he heard something in the back of the house.

Q. And he even asked for a flashlight at one point?

A. I asked him, do you have a flashlight? And he said -- I think he
had a pen light. And I asked him to ask the limo driver.

Q. Now, at no time did you tell Kaelin, before you left for the
airport, to take any special precautions with regard to your daughter,
Arnelle, who lived on the property, true?

A. True.

Q. And at no time did you give Kato any instructions about what he
should do with regard to the noises, such as calling Westec or calling
the police department, true?

A. I told him to look around.

Q. But you didn't tell him to call anybody, like security, right?

A. No.

Q. And when you got in the car and you left, and you drove off in the
limousine, there was a cell phone that that car had, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And, in fact, you also had your own phone with you by this time
because you had taken it with you to take on your trip, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you didn't make any calls to Mr. Kaelin from the limousine in
regard to the noises that he heard, right?

A. I know I had a conversation with Allan Park about it. I can't
recall if I attempted to call him and couldn't get through or -- I
called once I got to the airport.

Q. And --

A. I'm not sure. I may have --

Q. Excuse me. We're not talking about a conversation with Allan Park.

We're now talking about a conversation with Kato Kaelin who heard the
noises.

A. I don't know. I think I -- it seems to me that I attempted to and
didn't get through, so when I got to the airport I called him.

Q. So if the phone records would show that there were absolutely no
calls made from that limousine ride, you wouldn't quarrel with that,
would you?

A. No. But I think I -- I seem to recall attempting to. But sometimes
when you drive, you can't get through on the cell so ...

Q. And by the way --

A. Maybe it wasn't working. I'm not sure.

Q. When that happens it shows up on the phone bill, when you don't get
through, like we saw earlier?

A. I don't know. Sometimes if it -- If you make a connection through,
it will show up on the phone bill, and sometimes if you don't ever
make a connection through, it doesn't show up on the phone bill.

Q. And you didn't give Allan Park any instructions to go back and talk
to Kaelin, right?

A. No.

Q. And when you got to the airport and you hustled upstairs to catch
your plane, you were the last person to get on the plane, by the way,
right?

A. I believe so.

Q. And you made a phone call from the pay Phone at the airport, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you called Mr. Kaelin to tell him to set the alarm, right?

A. Yeah. I called him and asked him, did you find anything. Then I
said, well, maybe you can set the alarm.

Q. I asked you if you called him to set the alarm.

Did you or didn't you?

A. I -- eventually, that's what I told him to do.

Q. At no time in that call, sir, did you mention a word about the
noises that you -- that he had heard, true?

A. No. I think the first --

Q. True or untrue?

A. That's untrue.

Q. Okay.

A. I didn't mention the noises. I asked him did he look around, and he
said no.

Q. Than you gave him no instructions in regard to Arnelle, did you?

A. No.

Q. Making sure she was safe and there wasn't some burglar or prowler
on the ground?

A. No.

Q. Now, just a few moments ago, Mr. Simpson, you talked about before
you left, you went down to the Bronco to -- to get something, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, we went through this.

On the police statement it says the last thing you did is to get your
phone, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And your testimony now is that you went down and you're -- not to
get the phone but to get phone accessories?

A. Yes. I view it all as the same thing.

Q. You view what as the same thing?

A. This comes as a unit.

Q. You mean the phone and the accessories because --

MR. BAKER: Can you let him finish his answer, Mr. Petrocelli.

A. I view -- it's a nice little purse package that the whole thing
comes together in and I view that as my phone.

Q. And by the way, in this accessory things you're talking about, what
is that, a phone charger?

A. It's a -- you have a portable phone charger, you have a wire that
you can put into the light socket of any other car and use it as a
battery. It has a -- it's a nice case. It has a -- something else. It
has a -- oh, another battery, and it all fits in a little leather bag
-- case.

Q. Now, couple questions about that.

First of all, you weren't really interested in getting your cigarette
lighter battery charger to go to Chicago on an airplane, right? You
weren't renting a car there?

A. I may have 'cause I may have stayed over.

Q. But they pick you up in limos and Hertz takes cares of you?

A. Yes.

Q. They drive you all around, first class treatment?

A. Yes.

Q. Fly first class?

A. Yes.

Q. They pay for everything?

A. Yes.

Q. So you're nor going there and checking into the Hertz rent-a-car
place and looking for a little, you know, car to rent, are you?

A. If I stayed over I would have rented a Hertz car, yes.

Q. So for that reason you were going to -- you really wanted to go get
that little cigarette lighter charger; is that what you're saying?

A. No. It all comes in a case, so it's together, what's in there.
Often I never used the other battery, but it all comes together so
whatever is in there is what I carry together. And I also --

Q. And?

A. Excuse me.

Q. Sure.

A. And I always carry it together.

Q. Besides the cigarette charger, what other charger is in there?

A. It's a little thing. It's really kind of unique. You flip it up and
you stick it in your hotel -- in the hotel and put the battery on it
so it recharges the battery so when you're out on the golf course the
battery doesn't go dead if you're using it.

Q. And you wanted to take that with you to put in your hotel room?

A. I carry it all with me. It's how I carry the phone. That's how it
all comes.

Q. Now, when you got to the hotel room that morning, you didn't take
that thing out and stick it in a wall to charge anything, did you?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. Okay.

And your testimony at your deposition was that these -- this case with
everything in it that you're describing was found on the passenger
side seat, right?

A. Yeah, either on the seat or the floor. I'm not sure.

Q. On the passenger side?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you went out to the Bronco, this is while Park is still
parked there, right, in the limo?

A. He's not in the car. The limo's in the driveway, he's standing
somewhere in here, and I think Kato's over here.

Q. Right before you're going -- ready to go to the airport?

A. Yes.

Q. And you say you then walked down -- all the way down the driveway,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you pressed the gate control box?

A. I may have. I may have -- Yeah, I'm sure I pressed it going out or
-- no, I know what I did. I unhinged it.

Q. And you opened, it right?

A. Yeah.

Q. Now, you just said you unhinged it?

A. Yeah.

Q. You sure you didn't hit that button?

A. No, I'm pretty sure I unhinged it.

Q. You sure the dog didn't run out?

A. No, the dog didn't run out. I unhinged it so I wouldn't have to
open the gate all the way.

Q. If you had opened it by opening the gate control box, the
possibility existed that the dog would get out?

A. If I called him at that point, if I can see him when he leaves, I
call him, I can stop him, yes.

Q. You went out, you say you walked over to the driver side of the
Bronco, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, even though these items were on the passenger side, you went
over to the driver side, right?

A. Yeah.

Q. No explanation for that, right?

A. I think it's just a natural habit that you go to the driver side of
your car.

Q. You opened up the car door, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you reached with your right hand to get these items on the
passenger seat, and you also testified you got a Windbreaker that was
on the console, right?

A. I think the Windbreaker was sort of over the back of the front seat
also.

Q. And by the way, was -- did the light go on the overhead light --

A. I don't recall. It should have.

Q. Now, you just reached in, got these items and closed the door and
went back, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you did not get in the car and sit down, right?

A. You know what, I don't know. We would have to get in the Bronco to
see what it would take me to get, getting in the car to reach over
there. I wasn't thinking about it, if I climbed in, grabbed it, or I
stayed on the street and grabbed it. I really don't know.

Q. Mr. Simpson, you didn't get into this vehicle, sit down, close the
door, and then remove your items? That's not what you're saying?

A. No. I'm just saying the Bronco's kind of a big car so you got to
almost get in it to get anything.

Q. You didn't start the car, right?

A. Correct.

Q. You didn't pull out the headlight button, right?

A. Correct.

Q. And you didn't close the door, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. So you didn't have to open the door 'cause it wasn't closed, it was
open the whole time, right?

A. I'm sorry?

Q. You didn't have to -- You didn't have to?

A. Say it again.

Q. You didn't have to open the driver-side door by pulling the handle
because it was already open, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So you just reached in, got your things, and closed the door,
right?

A. Reached in, climbed up -- reached in or climbed up and got the
things.

Q. That's -- climbed up; that's a new fact?

A. I doubt if it's a new fact. I can't say whether reaching in to get
something out of a car or a Bronco, if you climb up in it to grab it
or if you reach over and grab it. I can't say specifically if I did
either one.

Q. You left that Bronco, you closed the door and locked it, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't bleed in that Bronco?

A. If I did I would have no knowledge of it.

Q. You didn't bleed?

A. I would have absolutely no knowledge --

Q. You didn't bleed on the thing that opens up the cigarette lighter
because you didn't open up the -- excuse me.

You didn't bleed on the nob where you open the headlights or turn on
the headlights, right?

A. I would have no knowledge. I doubt very seriously --

Q. You didn't touch it?

A. -- if I did.

Q. You didn't touch it?

A. I didn't touch it.

Q. Now, you testified on Friday that after you had come back from
McDonald's at 9:35 in your Bentley you had not seen a single speck of
blood on you or from your body that entire day and evening, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. So -- and when you went into the Bronco, you didn't see any blood
anywhere, right?

A. Anywhere.

Q. You didn't --

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't see blood on the light switch?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't see blood on the door handle that you open the door,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't even touch that door handle on the inside of the car,
right?

A. I wouldn't know that or not.

Q. And you were right-handed?

A. Yes.

Q. So your reaching in with your right hand, right?

A. I would assume so.

Q. Not your left hand, right?

A. I would assume that if I normally reach, it would be with my right
hand.

Q. There was nothing coming out of your right hand dripping with
blood, right?

A. Not that I saw.

Q. And are you now saying you stepped in the Bronco, sir?

A. I'm saying, as I told you before, I don't know if I -- how I got
over it to get the thing. I just know that normally a Bronco is a big
car, that you kind of get up to reach something. I don't recall if I
stood on the street, leaned all the way in and reached over and got
whatever I had to get, or if I got in it and reached over and got what
I had to because I don't recall if it was -- if it was on the floor.
There was just no way you can reach it from outside the car and reach
across and get it off the floor.

Q. So the record will reflect, when you just demonstrated reaching,
both times you reached with your right hand?

A. That's correct.

Q. And then you're right-handed?

A. That's correct.

Q. Did you leave a bloody footprint there when you stepped in?

A. I certainly didn't see it.

Q. You think it's a possibility, sir?

A. No.

Q. You think it's a possibility that you dripped blood all over that
Bronco when you reached in for a few seconds to grab these items? You
think that's a possibility.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I didn't see any blood. Anything's a possibility, but I certainly
did not see myself bleeding at this time.

Q. Well, you just said leaving a bloody shoe print wasn't possible?

A. I don't -- anything's a possibility, but I don't -- I don't think I
left any blood there. I don't think so.

Q. You know blood was found the next morning in that car, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You have no explanation for that blood, do you, sir?

A. That's correct.

Q. And it's your blood, right?

A. I don't know.

Q. It matches your blood?

A. I've been told that it does, yes.

Q. You have no explanation for how blood matching your blood and DNA
matching your DNA were found in that Bronco the next morning, true?

A. I don't know if it was found the next morning, but --

Q. What do you mean you don't know?

A. I don't know when they took it out. I didn't think they did that
the next morning. I'm sorry that I may be ignorant to that.

Q. Well, Monday or Tuesday?

A. Whenever.

Q. And you have no explanation for how DNA matching your DNA was found
in that Bronco, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you have no explanation for how your blood was found in that
Bronco?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you have no explanation, sir, for how blood of Nicole's was
found on the carpet of the driver side, do you?

A. No.

Q. And you have no explanation for how Ron Goldman's blood got in your
car that night, do you?

A. Me personally, no.

Q. Have no explanation for this jury, do you?

A. No.

Q. None?

A. None.

Q. I notice you turned to the jury.

You trying to emphasize that point?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, that's out of line.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you did tell the police, however, sir,
when you were interviewed the next morning, that you did cut your
finger that night, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you told the police that you cut your finger at a time that was
between 10 and 11, right?

A. Yes.

Q. That's the time that Ron and Nicole were murdered, right?

A. That's what I'm told, yes.

Q. And you told the police that you may have reopened that cut in
Chicago, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, the cut that you reopened in Chicago, sir, was on your middle
finger, right?

A. May have reopened, yes.

Q. What do you mean may have?

You just -- you didn't tell the cops "may have," did you?

A. I thought so. I thought that's what I said to them.

Q. Now, the cut on your middle finger is one that still bears a scar,
does it not?

(Witness reviews finger.)

A. Yes.

Q. Left hand middle finger, right?

A. Yes.

(Witness displays finger to Mr. Petrocelli.)

Q. Right over there, right across the knuckle?

A. Yes.

Q. How did that mark get on your finger between 10 and 11 on June 12
in Los Angeles?

A. I didn't see that or any mark on my hand between 10 and 11 on June
12.

Q. How is it, then, that you reopened that cut in Chicago the next
morning?

A. It was in -- an assumption on my part.

Q. What do you mean by assumption? You assumed --

MR. BAKER: Let him answer the question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You assumed --

MR. BAKER: He asked you what?

MR. PETROCELLI: Would you answer the question.

MR. BAKER: What do you mean by an assumption?

MR. PETROCELLI: Withdraw the question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You assumed you reopened the cut; is that what
you're saying?

A. Yes, because I did not see any cut, as I emphasized to the police
on numerous occasions, the night before. And I guess I did the wrong
thing by trying to assume, and I assumed that if I was cut the night
before, maybe it was the same cut because there was no other cut on my
hand.

Q. Well, the cut that you were talking to the police about, was this
one that still bears the scar?

A. That's correct. rm54

Q. You told the police, sir, that you reopened that --

A. Yeah.

Q. -- in Chicago, true or untrue?

Just answer the question.

A. I can't answer the question cause I think I said may have.

Q. You may have or did, right?

A. May have.

Q. Okay.

We'll find it.

And you also told the police that you were quite sure you cut your
finger before you went to Chicago, true or untrue?

A. Probably.

Q. Probably?

A. I don't recall saying it, but I do recall when they were asking me
about the night before, on numerous occasions that day, I assumed that
I cut my hand.

Q. And they asked you if you may have -- if you had been bleeding at
Nicole's or cut it at Nicole's in the past couple of weeks, and you
said no, you're quite sure you cut it last night.

Do you remember that?

A. I saw blood last night, yes.

Q. Well, let me read on page 22, line 27. (Reading.)

"Q. Do you recall having that cut on your finger the last time you
were at Nicole's house?

"A. Oh, a week ago?

"Q. Yeah.

"A. No.

"Q. 0h, so it's since then?

"A. Oh, I'm pretty sure, yeah. Yeah, just last night.

"Q. Okay. Somewhere last night you cut it?

"A. Yeah, yeah.

"Q. Somewhere after the recital?

"A. Somewhere when I was rushing to get out of my house.

"Q. Okay. After the recital?

"A. Yeah.

"Q. What do you think happened?

Do you have any idea?

"A. I have no idea, man."

There's no doubt that you told the police you cut your hand the night
before when you were leaving for the airport, true?

A. True.

Q. And you told the police that you had no idea how you did it, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you told the police that you reopened that cut or may have
reopened that cut in Chicago, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Tell the jury which cut did you reopen in Chicago, sir.

Point to it.

A. The police --

Q. Just point to the cut on your finger --

A. Well, I don't know because --

Q. -- that you reopened?

A. You haven't talked about everything that's in there.

Q. No, no, no, we'll do this one step at a time.

A. I don't know, I never saw --

Q. Excuse me, sir.

I just want you to point --

MR. BAKER: Your Honor -

MR. PETROCELLI: He's not answering my question.

MR. BAKER: That's because you won't let him. You keep interrupting
him. Let him answer the question.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Ask your question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, point to the cut on your finger
that you sustained in Los Angeles between 10 and 11 p.m. on June 12
and that you reopened in Chicago the next morning.

Just point to it.

A. I can't, cause I never saw a cut that night.

Q. Well, you know the finger that you cut in Chicago, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So point to that.

A. The finger that I cut in Chicago is here.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let the record reflect Mr. Simpson is pointing to the
middle finger of his left hand, just above --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) What do you call that, knuckle joint, I don't
know. What is it?

A. You're asking me?

Q. Yeah.

A. I would call it a knuckle.

Q. Okay.

And there's a scar there, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that scar the cut that you incurred in Los Angeles between 10
and 11 p.m. that you recut in Chicago, yes or no?

A. I would have to say no.

Q. Is that the cut you reopened in Chicago, yes or no?

A. I would say no.

Q. What do you mean you would say? What happened? Can't you just
answer the question?

MR. BAKER: Well, that's argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Answer it.

A. You want me to explain?

Q. I'm not asking you what you would say.

When you told the police that you cut your finger in Los Angeles, and
that you cut it again in Chicago, I would like you to tell us what cut
you were referring to?

A. I think earlier I told you I assumed, because I saw blood the night
before, that I had cut my finger. I made it clear to the police that I
never saw a cut, on numerous occasions that day.

I made an assumption, which I realize I shouldn't have made, because I
saw blood -- I saw blood on my finger. I assumed I had cut my hand.
Since I didn't see a cut, and since there was no other cut on my hand
when I returned from Chicago and I was with the police and I was with
Nurse Paratis, there was no other cut on my hand, I assumed and -- I
made an assumption and I was wrong making that assumption.

Q. Were you wrong telling the police that you cut your finger before
you left to go to Chicago?

A. That's right. I saw a spot of blood --

Q. One question at a time.

You were wrong when you told the police that you reopened that cut or
that you cut it in Chicago, yes or no, you were wrong?

A. I was wrong.

Q. Wrong.

Wrong about crucial questions given to you hours after Nicole's
murder, true?

MR. BAKER: This is argument.

A. At the time I didn't know what was crucial.

Q. Let me ask you --

MR. BAKER: Wait a minute. This is argumentative.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's not argumentative.

MR. BAKER: Again --

MR. PETROCELLI: Not -- absolutely not argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me back up here.

You testified on Friday this was the first time that you were
substantively interviewed, sit-down interview, with the police
detectives?

A. That's right.

Q. You've never ever been interviewed in connection with the murder?

A. That's right.

Q. You've never been interviewed in connection with the murder of your
ex-wife?

A. Correct.

Q. You were there not to assume anything, you were there to tell the
truth, right?

A. Yes.

But I did assume some things.

Q. And by the way, while you were assuming things, you said in the
interview that you were the number one target, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't know what to say to the police about the cut on the
finger, true, Mr. Simpson?

A. I knew what to say about when I got it. I think I was emphatic to
the police when I got it. I also was emphatic with them on numerous
occasions, even before we did the official interview, that I had
thought that I was bleeding the night before, but I never saw a cut.

Q. I want to talk about what you said to the police in this interview.
Not on numerous other occasions. Okay?

A. Okay.

Q. You had a real problem coming back from Chicago with a cut on your
hand and being questioned about the murder of Nicole, didn't you?

A. I wouldn't have viewed it as a problem, no.

Q. And you had no real explanation for that cut, correct?

A. Incorrect.

Q. You had no explanation for why blood was found at your house,
right?

A. At my house?

Q. Yes.

A. I don't know.

Q. Now, the police told you that they found blood at your house?

A. Yes.

Q. They said there's blood on the driveway, right?

A. Possibly.

Q. They said there's blood in the car, right?

A. They may have.

Q. They didn't tell you about any blood at Bundy, correct?

A. I'm pretty sure -- I don't recall -- I remember --

Q. Okay.

A. -- a police officer saying to me while I was handcuffed about blood
everywhere, and I don't recall if he specifically said where.

Q. While you were talking about why all the police and media were at
your house, right?

A. No.

Q. When you showed up there?

A. No, we were talking about why I was handcuffed.

Q. The police told you about blood they found at Rockingham, true?

A. I don't recall. I remember him saying there was blood everywhere
and he -- I saw police things --

Q. Let me read it to you. Page 31. (Reading.).

"Well, there's blood at your house, in the driveway. And that -- foot
step. We've got a search warrant and we're going to go and get the
blood.

"A. Sure.

"Q. We found some in your house.

"A. Oh.

"Q. Is that your blood that's dripped there?

"A. If it's dripped it's what I dripped running around trying to
leave."

A. Yes?

Q. Now, when the police told you they found blood at Rockingham, you
told them if they found blood there, that's your blood, that you
dripped it there, right, that's what --

A. Yeah, I assumed that, yes.

Q. Was that an assumption?

A. Yes.

Q. An important question like that and you just made an assumption?

A. Well, I saw --

Q. Is that what you're saying?

A. I made it clear to them that I saw a spot of blood. I didn't tell
them that I dripped blood in my Bronco or the driveway. If I had, I
would have told them I didn't see any blood in any of those places. I
saw one drop of blood and some blood on my pinky which I told them,
and so I assumed --

Q. You also told them, sir, if that -- if it's your blood dripped on
the driveway --

A. I don't know if I specifically --

Q. -- and the Bronco, that it's what you must have dripped running
around, true or untrue?

A. I don't believe that's what was implied by that answer.

Q. Well, when I said, sir, is that your blood that's dripped there,
referring to the driveway and in your house, you said, if it's
dripped, it's what I dripped running around trying to leave.

Now you were referring to, when you said that, to the driveway and
your house, right?

A. I assumed -- I knew I was bleeding. I told them that I saw a drop
of blood and -- in only one place on my counter. If it was elsewhere
and it was mine, maybe that's when it happened. I don't know because I
don't -- only saw it in one place and I saw no cut and I saw no other
blood.

Q. Now, you told the police that you cut your finger -- excuse me --
that you saw blood on your finger in the kitchen, right?

A. That's right.

Q. You testified at your deposition that there was a little dab or
speck of blood under the fingernail of your left finger, right?

A. I don't believe I said that.

Q. You don't believe you said that there was a little blood on your
pinky of your left hand?

A. I believe I said that.

Q. Okay.

And you also said that a little droplet fell to the kitchen counter?

A. No, I said I saw a drop on the kitchen counter.

Q. How did it get there?

A. I assumed -- since I saw some on my finger and saw a drop there, I
assumed it came from me, but since I wasn't cut or bleeding anymore
than that --

Q. Okay.

A. -- you know, I was trying to leave, I wasn't thinking about it.

Q. So you saw blood on the counter, right?

A. I saw what I thought was blood on my counter.

Q. At the same time that you're seeing blood on your finger, right?

A. Yes, on my pinky fingernail.

Q. And you then, you said in your depo, took a towel and cleaned the
blood off and threw it away?

A. I took a piece of paper from a towel rack, my paper towel rack,
yes.

Q. And then threw it away?

A. I assume so. I don't know, I was talking to Kato and I was walking
out the front door then.

Q. So you told the police that, no question about that in your mind,
there's blood coming from you someplace on the evening of June 12,
correct?

A. Once again, that would have been an assumption because since I saw
a drop of blood on my counter, and I saw a drop of blood on my pinky,
I assumed it came from me. I saw no other blood coming from anywhere.
I didn't see it bleed beyond that. But I did make an assumption.

Q. Did you -- did you assume that it was your blood, sir?

A. I assumed that, at the time, it was my blood, yes.

Q. You have -- you don't have any reason to believe it's somebody
else's blood?

A. I assumed it was my blood.

Q. You have no reason to believe that it's anybody else's blood?

A. I assumed it was my blood.

Q. Now, tell the jury how you cut yourself such to have blood that was
on the counter and blood was on the finger?

A. I don't know. As I said, I didn't feel the cut, I didn't see any
other blood anywhere, and when I -- I was talking to Kato at the time,
and I saw a drop of blood on my counter and I looked at my hand and
saw a drop of blood on my pinky, and that's all I saw.

Q. You have no idea how blood got on you that night; is that what
you're saying?

A. Yes.

THE COURT: Okay.

10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

Bring the jury back in exactly 10 minutes.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resumed their respective seats.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, your testimony is that in the
evening of June 12, 1994, the only blood you ever saw that day and
evening was a little bit on your pinky and on the kitchen counter?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered, argumentative

MR. PETROCELLI: That --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did you see any blood anywhere else at all in
the house, on the driveway, or in the car?

A. No, not that I recall.

Q. Now, you're positive that the blood that you saw was on your pinky,
not on any other finger?

A. Yes.

Q. And you're positive it was your left hand, right?

A. Yeah, pretty sure that's where it was.

Q. And you did not tell the police, sir, about any pinky cut, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't tell the police that you cut your pinky, right?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't tell the police that you saw blood on your pinky,
right?

A. I know I did, possibly more than once.

Q. In the statement you didn't tell the police, the tape recorded
statement, anything about a pinky, correct?

A. I -- possibly not, but I don't know, I don't -- I haven't read it
to that detail.

Q. Well, you want to take a look at the page where you discuss the
blood in the kitchen, at line 3, and tell me if in describing that you
saw some blood on your -- in the kitchen, at that point, if you
mentioned anything about a pinky?

A. In this, no.

Q. Okay.

A. I mean I don't see it there.

Q. The discussion you were having about a cut finger, with the police,
was in reference to a large -- large cut on the back of your middle
finger, right?

A. I know we talked about that, yes.

Q. And in all the discussions about your finger being cut, with the
police, the reference was to the middle finger, correct?

A. I remember we talked about that, yes.

Q. Okay.

And there's nothing in the statement about a pinky, right?

A. No, I don't believe so. But I know I told them that on more than
one occasion.

Q. Now, when you left to go to the airport, you got there and got on
the plane and you sat down in first class, right?

A. At some point, yes.

Q. And nobody sat next to you, right?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. And it was the lights go out on a redeye flight and most folks go
to sleep?

MR. BAKER: Object.

THE WITNESS: I would assume so.

MR. BAKER: Calls for speculation.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You're a frequent first class flyer on redeye
flights, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You see that most of the time, people in the cabin are sleeping,
right?

A. A lot of people -- some people read, some people sleep. I tend to
try to sleep and read. I do a little bit of both.

Q. You didn't sleep that night, right?

A. I think I dozed a little bit, yes.

Q. For how long?

A. I don't know.

Q. Couple hours?

A. I don't know. I couldn't even tell you how long the flight was
because I kind of -- I was reading, I dozed, I was reading. The
captain came back. I was reading, I dozed, you know, just a little bit
of each.

Q. So a four-hour flight, you think you slept two hours?

A. Maybe, maybe an hour.

Q. Hour to two?

A. Yeah.

Q. Okay.

A. Yeah.

Q. You didn't display your left hand to anyone on the airplane, did
you?

A. No.

Q. When you landed in Chicago, it was about 6 a.m. Chicago time?

A. I would have guessed so.

Q. You were met there by a Hertz representative to take you over to
the airport, right?

A. No.

Q. Take you to the hotel? Excuse me.

A. Yes.

Q. This is Chicago -- O'Hare Airport?

A. That's right.

Q. You're going to a hotel that was then called the Chicago O'Hare
Plaza?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now called the Windham hotel?

A. I don't know.

Q. In any event, you had never seen this person who showed up to pick
you up, right?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Okay.

And when he met you at the gate --

A. Yes.

Q. -- you came off the plane with your black grip and your suit --
your O.J.S suit bag?

A. Yes.

Q. And you walked down to the baggage claim area to pick up the Louis
Vuitton and golf bag?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. Before the baggage got there, you sat down on the bench with this
fellow who's name we've since learned is Jim Merrill?

A. Yes.

Q. M-e-r-r-i-l-l.

Hertz employee, right?

A. Yes.

Q. This was a Hertz function you were going to?

A. That's correct.

Q. And when the baggage arrived on the carousel, you left your two
items that you carried off the plane with Merrill, and you went over
to the carousel area to pick up the other two items, correct?

A. I don't recall. I know I carried some; he carried some.

Q. I'm just focusing on the time when you're waiting for the luggage,
right? You with me?

A. Yeah, I was signing autographs, waiting for the luggage.

Q. So what I'm getting to is this: Merrill is waiting on the bench
with two of the pieces you came off the plane with, and you went on
your own to the baggage carousel to pick up the golf bag and the Louis
Vuitton bag, true or untrue?

A. I don't recall that. I just know he carried two items and I carried
two items.

Q. Do you recall that or not?

A. No.

Q. If Merrill said that happened, you wouldn't quarrel with that,
would you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And you were out of Merrill's view for a couple of minutes, right?

A. No, no, this was -- was as close as almost you and I are.

Q. Couple of minutes it took you to go get your stuff and come back?

A. We were about -- the baggage rack was about where your counsel
table is and the bench was about here where we're all in one open
room.

Q. You picked up the golf bag and the Louis Vuitton bag, and carrying
those items walked to the waiting car?

A. Yeah, it was right outside the door, maybe ten yards from us.

Q. And you put those items -- the golf bag went in the trunk, right?

A. Yeah. He had a truck. It went in the back of his truck.

Q. And you then drove to the hotel, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Hotel is only about five minutes away, right?

A. It didn't seem much more than ten minutes.

Q. Pretty close to the airport?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you got to the airport -- excuse me.

When you got to the hotel, you made arrangements with Mr. Merrill to
pick you up the next day -- later on that day, after you had some
sleep, to go to the golf event, correct?

A. No.

Q. You had -- you had him -- you exchanged phone numbers with him,
right?

A. Yeah, he gave me his number. It was already arranged that he would
pick me up the next morning to take me to the golf course.

Q. You were expecting him to come back in a few hours to get you and
take you to the golf event?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you got from Mr. Merrill some telephone numbers, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you got from Mr. Merrill his work number, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you also got from Mr. Merrill his home phone number, correct?

A. Well, I think I got his mobile phone and his home phone. I don't
believe I got his work number. It may have already been in my travel
folder.

Q. May have been in his car?

A. I don't remember getting --

Q. Basically you had all his phone numbers?

A. I think I had them.

Q. Excuse me?

A. I think I had them on my travel thing, I believe, and I think he
may have added his cell phone number.

Q. And you asked for that?

A. I don't know if I asked for it or not. I think he just gave it to
me.

Q. Then you checked into the hotel, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you left your golf bag with Merrill in the truck?

A. That's right.

Q. And you took the other items with you, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were expecting to see Merrill in a few hours, correct?

A. Five hours or so.

Q. It was about -- about 6:30 a.m. Chicago time?

A. That's correct.

Q. And he was going to pick you up about 10 o'clock?

A. I don't know -- I thought something was going on at -- I thought he
was picking me up about 11, I forgot there was a lunch thing -- that
he was going to pick me up at the golf course.

Q. Now, you told the person at the front desk that you did not want
any phone calls, correct?

A. I don't know if I told her that or not. I may have, but I don't --
I don't -- I don't recall saying that to her, no.

Q. You sure?

A. I don't -- I don't ever recall ever telling people don't put calls
through.

Q. You didn't tell her that you didn't want to be disturbed cause you
only had a couple hours to get some sleep?

A. I may have.

Q. Did you say that?

A. I may have, yes.

Q. You may have?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Then you went up to your room, and you didn't unpack all your
clothes, right?

A. When you say unpack, I took my suit bag and hung it up. I took my
-- the two golf outfits that I had in my Louis Vuitton bag and hung it
up, you know, took out my toiletries. I did what I always do.

Q. You got in bed, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And laid down for a while, correct?

A. Yeah, I may have read a little bit. I tend to read myself to sleep.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have the photos of the hotel room, Steve.

(Mr. Foster displays exhibits.)

Q. Now, that was a suite that they set up for you, right?

A. I believe so.

Q. Suite 915?

A. Yes.

Q. And the bedroom had a phone next to it, correct, the bedroom had a
bedside table next to the bed, there's a phone on the -- on the
bedside table, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And there is no telephone in the bathroom which is in the next
room, right?

A. I don't believe so, but I don't recall.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number?

MR. FOSTER: 1319.

(Exhibit 1319 was displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You can look at the monitor, Mr. Simpson.

A. Yeah.

Q. That's the bed you slept in, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And this is the phone next to the bed, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you slept for a little bit, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you dropped some blood while you were sleeping in the middle of
those sheets, didn't you, sir, from your bleeding finger, right?

A. I would doubt that.

Q. And there was blood found in the middle or center area of the
sheets, right?

You're aware of that?

A. I don't know where, but I heard that there was a drop of blood or
something on the sheets, yes.

Q. Now, just jumping ahead for a second.

After you received the call from Detective Phillips notifying you of
Nicole's death, you hurried to get out of there, and at no time after
that call did you ever get back into bed, correct, Mr. Simpson?

A. Into, no.

Q. You didn't lay down and take a nap or anything, right?

A. Into the bed, no. I did lay back on the bed at one point, and was
on the bed every time I was on the telephone.

Q. Okay.

Now, Detective Phillips called around 8 o'clock Chicago time, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And told you that your ex-wife had been killed, right?

A. Among other things, yes.

Q. And said your children were at the police station, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you said, what do you mean? What do you mean? Words to that
effect, right?

True?

A. Yeah.

Q. You never once said to Detective Phillips, are you sure, are you
sure, you never said that, did you?

A. Am I sure of what?

Q. Are you sure it was Nicole?

A. No.

Q. As opposed to somebody else?

A. No.

Q. You didn't say that, did you?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. And you didn't ask Detective Phillips questions about how it could
have happened, whether it was a car accident or burglary or whatever?

A. I think --

Q. You didn't ask any of those questions?

A. About a burglary and a car accident, no.

I think my first question was, what do you mean, what are you saying,
what do you mean. And he immediately told me, we can't tell you
anything, we're trying to investigate, we're trying to find out, O.J.,
there's nothing we know now, your kids are safe, and words to that
effect.

Q. And after he told you those things, Mr. Simpson, you did not
continue to pepper him with questions about how it could have happened
and was it a this, was it a that, you didn't go on, right?

A. No. I called back though, and then whoever I talked to next told me
the same thing.

Q. Told you they didn't know anything?

A. That there was nothing they can tell me. Same thing they told me
all day long.

Q. You then got on the phone to make this arrangement to get back to
Los Angeles, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you talked to Cathy Randa, your assistant, to help you get a
flight back to L.A.?

A. I think on numerous times I did.

Q. Several times, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you -- she got on the phone with you on a three-way conference
call to a travel agent that worked for the Hertz Company, a woman by
the name of Donna, was it Manzion?

A. You know, I really don't recall any of that. I just know --

Q. You don't recall?

A. No.

Q. Okay. And while you were on the telephone call with Cathy and this
travel person, you put the phone down and you went into the bathroom
that adjoins that bedroom, true?

A. I don't know. I know at a couple of times the people who were
trying to help me on the phone said it would take a while, that did I
want them to call back or would I hold. And I would be running, trying
to pack, and I was in the bathroom and back, and I was on and off the
phone so many times because -- I think the flight that took I
arranged, not Cathy. Cathy had arranged for me to take a 10 o'clock
flight, and I found a 9:15 flight. I was back and forth to the phone
so many times then, and on a few occasions I know the person said it
would take a while, so they held while I was -- and I was running back
and forth to the phone.

Q. Let me stop you there.

That exhibit we just had on the TV monitor, of the bed, was Exhibit
1319. And now we're going to put up on the monitor, Exhibit 2156

(Exhibit 2156 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, this is the bathroom that adjoins that
bedroom, right?

A. Yes.

Q. There's no phone in that bathroom, right?

A. I don't see any.

Q. And you went in that bathroom while you were on the phone, or
between calls or whatever, getting your plane back, and you went and
broke a glass, right?

A. Yeah, a glass broke at one point when I was in there.

Q. What do you mean a glass broke? You broke it, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Tell the jury exactly how you broke the glass.

A. I couldn't tell you. I don't know.

Q. Give us -- Give us your best recollection. How did you break it,
sir?

A. I think I was very emotional when I went in there at one point, and
during that point a glass broke as I was going back and forth. It was
a very emotional time for me.

Q. Pretend this is a glass.

(Indicating to a water bottle.)

A. Yes.

Q. I wish I had a glass. I was supposed to have one. Let's use this.

You know those hotel glasses are kind of thick, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Sturdy glasses. They're sort of short tumblers?

A. Some are, some aren't.

Q. That's the kind of glass they had there?

A. I don't recall.

Q. How did you break it? What did you do?

A. I don't know. At one point going back and forth, a glass broke. I
couldn't tell you if I was drinking water, or if I slammed it down or
if I just knocked it over. I really couldn't tell you. It just -- as I
was going back and forth to the plane, trying to get a flight out of
Chicago, trying to get my stuff packed, a glass broke.

Q. That's not a normal occurrence for you, glasses to break, right?

A. I've broken glasses. I think everybody here has broken glasses
before.

Q. You know when you break a glass, right?

A. I know when I broke a glass.

Q. When did you break this glass?

A. I don't know.

Q. At what point in time did you break this glass, tell us exactly
when it occurred?

A. As I've told you on numerous occasions, Mr. Petrocelli, it was
during the course of going back and forth trying to pack, trying to
get my flight out of there, I was going back and forth, back and
forth. In the midst of that, at one of the times I was in and out of
that bathroom, the glass broke.

Q. Well, the glasses -- you see the coffee, condiments and the coffee
machine there, and flowers; you see all that there?

(Indicating to exhibit 2156)

A. Yes.

Q. Now, is this the way it looked when you were there that --

A. I don't remember.

Q. You don't question this, though, do you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Now, you didn't take the glass and throw it at these items here,
right?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And you didn't take the glass and throw it at the mirror, right?

A. I don't recall.

Q. And you didn't throw it at the shower, did you?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't throw it into the toilet, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't throw it on the floor, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't throw it at anything, right?

A. I don't believe so, no.

Q. Okay. And if you didn't throw the glass -- excuse me.

Did you step on it?

A. No.

Q. Did you put it down on the ground and step on it?

A. No.

Q. Did you kick it?

A. No.

Q. Did you do anything with the glass in sort of an act of rage or
violence, taking the glass and slamming it down on the counter? Did
you do that?

A. Rage of violence, no.

Q. Yeah.

Did you slam it down on the counter?

A. I may have.

Q. You may have?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. That's the closest you can remember is that you may have
taken the glass and gone like that; is that what you're saying.

A. I may have.

Q. Okay. Is that the best you can do for this jury?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Did -- Now, when you think you've -- you may
have done that, what area of the bathroom counter did that happen,
sir?

MR. BAKER: We now have elevated it to happening when he says it may
have happened. There's no basis for that question.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You may answer if you can.

A. I just recall my toothbrush and glass right around the area that
may -- what appears to be an ashtray, I just know there was a piece of
glass on the floor, I believe, and glass was in that area, and, you
know, it wasn't the focal point of where I was at that time.

It was just a glass there. I moved it. I just know that I somehow
moved it into the sink so that I could get my stuff. And my focus was
on trying to get a flight out of Chicago and get home.

Q. When that glass broke, you got -- you went back to the telephone
and told the person on the line that you just broke a glass, didn't
you?

A. I don't know. I don't know what I said to these people. I just knew
--

Q. You remember saying that?

A. No, I don't.

Q. Okay.

And when the glass broke, you said one piece landed on the floor,
right?

A. I don't know. It may have been two pieces.

Q. Two pieces?

A. It seemed to me I picked something up off the floor, 'cause my
first concern was that there was stuff on the floor, and I was -- I
just picked it up.

As I said, I was in such a rush that it wasn't anything that I focused
on.

Q. Now, what about on the counter, where were the glass chips on -- or
glass shards on the counter?

A. I just know it was on this side.

Q. What side? Right side?

A. Facing --

Q. The picture?

A. Facing on the side where the toilet paper seemed to be.

Q. Right here?

A. I don't know. It was in that area. It was on this side of the sink.
I don't know specifically where each piece of glass was. I don't know.

Q. Okay.

And when that happened, sir, right away did you notice blood?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. Okay.

And after that happened, sir, what did you do?

A. I don't know. I was going back and forth to the phone, and at one
point I noticed blood and I took some of that and put it around, that
paper that was right there, and I was going back and forth.

Q. What paper?

A. I believe it was the toilet paper.

Q. Toilet paper?

A. Yeah.

Q. So the sequence of events is you think you may have slammed the
glass down, you may have broken it, you went to the phone, you picked
up a piece of glass off the floor, or two.

What did you do with the glass up on the counter?

A. I think basically my recall, and I'm strictly taking a shot here. I
-- at some point when I was trying to get it in the sink, I think I
cut my hand, but I couldn't tell you when. I was back and forth to the
phone so many times, and I was also packing and at some point in there
I cut my hand.

Q. Now, you didn't cut your hand when you slammed the glass down,
right?

A. I don't believe I cut it when the glass first broke.

Q. You keep saying glass first broke?

A. Yes.

Q. You don't know how you did it?

A. No.

Q. And with the glass up here, you testified in your deposition that
you began to sweep that glass all the way across into the sink, true?

A. I don't know about all the way across. I would imagine that even
where you are is about 12 inches or so from the sink.

Q. From the toilet paper area to the sink you think is about 12
inches?

A. Yeah, I would say there.

(Indicating to photo.)

Q. Okay.

A. As I said, it's on the toilet paper side of the sink. I wouldn't
say it's as far as the toilet paper. I don't -- it was just glass in
that area. I used possibly that towel there, I guess, to --

Q. Now, when you did the sweeping of the glass into the sink, did you
put anything over your hand to prevent it from getting cut?

A. I think I used a towel to do that.

Q. And you wrapped the towel around your hand?

A. No, I don't --

Q. What did you do with the towel?

A. I don't know. I just took something. I may have been trying to flap
it over. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. It was not a focal point of what
I was doing. I could not tell you with any real certainty exactly how
I did it.

All I know is that at some point I was packing my stuff, I made sure
the glass was out of my way as I was putting my things back in my
overnight kit, I was going back and forth to the airplane -- I mean to
the telephone, and somewhere in there my hand was cut.

Q. Did you put the towel around your hand?

That's what I'm trying to figure out.

A. I don't know.

Q. Did you take the towel and put it in front of your hand?

A. I don't recall.

Q. Now, you're right-handed, you said, right?

A. Yeah.

Q. So did you take your right hand and sweep the glass into the sink?

A. I don't recall.

Q. And you cut your hand when you did the sweeping of the glass into
the sink?

A. I assumed so; at some point I was cleaning up the glass, a piece
cut my -- my hand.

Q. Now, the glass was swept from the countertop into the sink, right?

A. I think I got most of it into the sink, yes.

Q. And you picked one or two pieces up and put those in the sink,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you didn't cut your right hand doing that, did you?

A. No, I didn't.

Q. You have marks on your left hand, right?

A. Yes, I have marks on both hands.

Q. Well, that night you had a large injury on your left hand, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And it's on the back of your left finger, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And, in fact, you also had -- for the jury, we're talking about the
middle finger where the scar is, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, your testimony right now is that you sustained that injury,
that still bears the scar, while sweeping the glass into the sink,
correct?

A. I sustained that injury at sometime, I assumed, sweeping, picking
up, I was cleaning the glass, trying to get it into the sink, that's
when I got that injury.

Q. Okay.

And so then you're now saying that you used your left hand?

A. I'm sure I used both hands, you know. I'm -- you know, I can use
both of my hands.

Q. So, you mean you used your left hand to backhand the chips --

A. I don't know.

Q. -- chips of glass into the sink?

A. I don't know.

Q. How did you get the cut on your finger?

A. Well, I got the cut during the period of time that I was trying to
get the glass into the sink. I cut my finger.

Q. Well, tell us how glass came into contact to that part of your
finger, sir, while you were sweeping the glass or picking up the
pieces?

A. As I've told you on numerous occasions now, I couldn't tell you
distinctly at what precise instant it happened, but it was during the
process of going back and forth to the telephone, trying to pack my
clothes, moving the glass out of the way so I can put my toiletries
away, that I cut my hand.

I can't tell you any more than that.

Q. You're unable to give us anything more definitive than that, sir?

A. That's correct.

Q. You cannot tell the jury how the cut -- how the glass actually cut
your finger?

A. No.

Q. True?

A. That is -- No.

Q. That is correct?

A. That is correct.

Q. And you also had another injury when you came back to Los Angeles,
right, sir?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. In other words, you had not only the middle finger injured that
still bears the scar, but you had on your -- on your fourth finger,
next to it, you had an injury right there, right?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. You've seen the picture of that, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you deny coming back to LA with that on your hand?

A. Yes.

Q. And you deny having that cut on your hand on the fourth finger, the
inside part of the finger, when you spoke to the police?

A. Well, I know it wasn't there when the police had my hand on the
paper with Nurse Peratis and they were inspecting my hand. I know it
wasn't there then.

Q. And was it there by the time you left the police station?

A. I don't -- It wasn't there then.

I know when I was with Vannatter and Lange and Nurse Peratis, all
three of them took my hand, they put it down on the thing, Nurse
Peratis was cleaning the cut on my middle finger, they both looked at
my hand and there was no other cut there.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

This is the fourth finger, right.

Exhibit 714/715.

(Exhibit 714/715 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You definitely had this on your fourth finger
as of June 15 when you were in the office of Dr. Robert Huizenga,
true?

A. I assume so, yes.

Q. You don't deny that, do you?

A. I assume so. I don't recall it, but if that's when this picture was
taken evidently, I did.

Q. Well, if he said you had that cut on your finger on the 15 of June,
you wouldn't quarrel with that?

A. Not at all.

Q. Okay.

Now, did you have this injury depicted on this exhibit of your --
Exhibit 714?

A. Most definitely not. I didn't see it. I know -- I know both
Peratis, Vannatter and Lange both inspected my hand, they held it up,
they put it on the thing, they looked at the injury, they talked to me
about the injury, and I'm sure that they would have noted it if there
was another injury there, and it was not there.

Q. Well, I'm not interested in argument.

Just answer the question, okay.

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to that comment, especially in lieu of
his arguing all morning.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, if you had an injury like that on
your hand as depicted on this fourth finger there, you would know you
had it, true?

A. Not necessarily.

Q. Oh, would you have an injury like that and not even be aware of it;
is that what you're saying?

A. Often I do.

Q. Marks like that?

A. That's not really -- if you could look at the wrinkles of your hand
and look at the wrinkles there, that's not a big mark. I just know it
wasn't there -- was not there --

Q. Okay.

A. -- was not there on the 13th when I was in Nurse Peratis' office
with Vannatter and Lange. That was not there.

Q. And -- well, let me -- let me say this to you. You've been with
Skip Taft for how many years, 30 years?

A. Yes.

Q. Is he an honest man?

A. I think so.

Q. Very loyal to you?

A. I believe so.

Q. And he testified in his deposition that you had that on your hand
at June 13.

MR. BAKER: I object. That's an improper question. I object to that.

Q. (MR. PETROCELLI) If he testified --

THE COURT: Just a minute. Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) If he testified that you had that injury on
your hand on June 13 --

MR. BAKER: I object again. He's asking the same question.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Would that be correct or incorrect?

MR. BAKER: He's asking the same question. It's been sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's not the same question.

MR. BAKER: Exactly the same --

THE COURT: Excuse me.

Taft has not testified, yes?

MR. PETROCELLI: Taft?

THE COURT: Taft.

MR. PETROCELLI: Skip Taft, T-a-f-t, he will be testifying shortly,
Your Honor.

And my question to the witness is if Mr. Taft did testify in his
deposition --

THE COURT: All right then. Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) If Mr. Taft testified in his deposition that
you had that injury on your fourth finger when you were at the police
station, would he be correct or incorrect?

A. He'd be incorrect.

Q. And was he there with you?

A. He was there with me just about every day.

Q. So was Howard Weitzman, your lawyer?

A. That's correct.

Q. How did you get that cut, Mr. Simpson?

A. You know, I really don't know.

Q. So between June 13 and when Huizenga saw it on June 15, you have no
clue how you got that cut; is that what you are saying?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That's correct. I don't think that was a cut that -- that was not a
cut, I know that.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) It was a fingernail mark, wasn't it, sir?

A. I doubt that very seriously.

Q. It was someone's fingernails gripping into your skin, true?

A. Unless it was Justin.

MR. BAKER: Object.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I can't imagine who else it was.

Q. You're saying it was Justin's, your son's?

A. I think Justin is the only person that between the 13th and the
15th that I was in any real heavy physical thing with, but I don't
recall that happening when he and I were wrestling that evening.

Q. You're talking about the night of June 14, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And how old was Justin that night?

A. Probably 17 (sic).

I'm not saying this was Justin.

Q. 17?

A. I'm saying he was the only person that I was in any -- that I would
call physical thing with that a fingernail could be --

Q. How old was Justin?

A. 7.

Q. And how old was he -- how big was he?

A. Justin's a healthy kid.

Q. When he was -- the evening of June 14, 1994, you're talking about a
little boy, right?

A. 7 year old, 80-pound boy.

Q. You're not saying to the jury that Justin gouged you with his
fingernails and cause that injury?

A. Not at all.

Q. You're not saying that?

A. Not at all. But's he the only person I was in any kind of physical
wrestle with between the 13th and the 15th.

Q. Exhibit from 714 slash 715. It's a booklet of photographs testified
to by Dr. Huizenga.

This is your middle finger, Mr. Simpson, you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, what's the cut -- what's the injury that you sustained in
Chicago that you don't know how you did it but somehow had to do with
the glass?

A. This -- this thing right here.

Q. This curved mark here?

A. Yes.

(Indicating to Exhibit 714/715.)

Q. And there's another injury right here.

Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. Another sort of curved mark.

Do you see that?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, how did you -- how did you get that injury?

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know?

A. No.

Q. Can't give us a single explanation, true?

A. True.

Q. And you had had -- you had that injury on your hand as of June 15,
true?

A. Possibly.

Q. When Dr. Huizenga so testified you wouldn't dispute that, would
you?

A. No, I wouldn't.

Q. Did you have that injury on your hand when you came back from
Chicago?

A. No. The only injury I had on my hand -- like I said, they inspected
it very closely.

Q. Excuse me. I'm not asking you who inspected what. Okay.

Did you have this injury on the top of your middle finger when you
came back from Chicago?

A. I certainly did not see it.

Neither did Vannatter or Lange for that matter.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, you keep bringing this up.

You're relying on statements that you read about in reports, that Mr.
Vannatter and Mr. Lange didn't notice all the other cuts on your
fingers, aren't you?

MR. BAKER: I object to that. That's argumentative.

MR. PETROCELLI: Brought it up five times.

All right.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You're relying on statements, correct?

A. No. I don't think I ever saw -- other than my interview, I don't
think I've ever read a statement by Vannatter or Lange or Peratis for
that matter.

Q. You are familiar with statements made by Detective Vannatter and
Lange that they did not, when they interviewed on the 13th, notice
other cuts, true?

You're familiar with that, right?

A. No, that's incorrect.

Q. And that's why you keep talking about Vannatter and Lange because
you're trying to prove that because they didn't notice, you didn't
have those cuts.

MR. BAKER: Objection.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's what you're trying to prove to this
jury, right?

MR. BAKER: I object. He's not trying to prove anything's. He answering
questions.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

Let's go to the next one, Steve, next photos.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And by the way, we'll show you this one, Mr.
Simpson, June 13, police station, the one you keep talking about,
right?

A. Yes?

THE COURT REPORTER: Excuse me. That number, please?

MR. FOSTER: 172.

(Exhibit 172 displayed.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Do a fuller view of the whole hand.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Okay.

Now, that's not a picture of your fourth finger, is it, sir?

A. No. But it is a picture of my middle finger where I saw two marks.

Q. Those two, they're both there?

A. I don't know. I just see one.

Q. You don't see the other cut there? Right here?

A. No.

Q. You don't see a cut right here or a redness right there on the
picture taken on June 13 under the -- in the presence of Vannatter and
Lange and Nurse Peratis?

A. Yeah. I see redness all in there.

Q. You don't see that cut there, that mark there?

MR. BAKER: I object.

A. No.

Q. And you only see the one down here, right?

A. Got to pull it back.

MR. PETROCELLI: Pull it back.

(Indicating to Exhibit 172.)

THE WITNESS: Yeah, I think --

MR. PETROCELLI: Pull it back more.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You don't see the fourth finger in there
either, do you?

A. No.

Q. Then on the side --

A. Not on that picture, no.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let's put up another one, same time taken, June 13,
police station.

MR. FOSTER: 171.

MR. PETROCELLI: What's the last one?

MR. FOSTER: 172.

(Exhibit 171 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You see this picture?

A. Yeah.

Q. You see that cut up there, Mr. Simpson?

A. Show me.

Q. You don't see that injury up there on the top part of your finger?

A. I see something there that doesn't comport with the earlier picture
that I saw with the side angle thing.

Q. Where did you get that, Mr. Simpson?

A. I don't think that's a cut. I think that's --

Q. Where did you get that, fingernail gouging.

MR. BAKER: I object.

A. I don't think that's what that is.

MR. BAKER: I object. Move to strike his characterization.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Where did you get that injury?

A. I don't know. I don't think that's an injury. If it did, it would
have been with the glass, but --

Q. You --

A. I didn't see an injury then, and I know that they were taking
pictures of anything that they thought, on my hand, was an injury.

Q. So you -- are you now saying that it's possible you could have had
another injury up above the knuckle cut?

A. No, I'm not saying that.

MR. PETROCELLI: Give me a distant shot on that of that picture. All
the way back.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And you don't see the fourth finger
photographed there, do you?

A. No.

Q. You're not aware of any photos of the fourth finger taken by the
police department taken that day?

A. I'm sure if they saw something they would have taken a picture.

Q. Are you aware of any such photo?

A. I'm not aware of it.

Q. Never seen it, have you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put that up there, left hand photo.

Q. (MR. PETROCELLI) See these marks here, sir?

A. Yeah.

THE REPORTER: What is the exhibit number, please?

MR. GELBLUM: 714.

MR. PETROCELLI: 714, Gina. I'm sorry.

(Exhibit 714 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Where did you sustain these injuries, sir?

A. Who knows.

Q. You don't know?

A. No.

Q. Did you have them when you came back from Chicago?

A. If I did, they're so small I don't think I would have noticed.

Q. So you could have had those injuries?

A. They could have been there.

Q. And you could have had them -- sustained them on the evening of
June 12, right?

A. I wouldn't have any idea why they would have been there, so -- if
you look at the wrinkles on your hand, and you look at those, they're
so small, I wouldn't have noticed it, like if it would have happened
like a week before.

Q. You don't dispute that those injuries would -- could have occurred
on the evening of June 12, do you?

A. No.

Q. If you got them after you came back from Chicago, you cannot tell
the jury how you got them, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Let's place there on --

MR. BAKER: After this one returns --

Q. This the same exhibit, Exhibit 714, left hand.

How did you get these injuries, sir?

A. Again, if they were there I wouldn't even saw them, so I wouldn't
have known where I got them.

Q. You don't dispute that you could have gotten them on the evening of
June 12?

A. I could have gotten them at any time.

Q. Including between 10 and 11 on the evening of June 12?

A. I don't dispute I could have gotten this at any time.

Q. Including that time?

A. Including that time.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you.

THE COURT: 1:30, ladies and gentlemen.

(At 12:00 P.M. a recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996
1:35 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: You may proceed.

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you, Your Honor.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, the witness on the stand at the time of the
luncheon recess, having been previously duly sworn, was examined
further as follows:

DIRECT EXAMINATION (Continued) BY MR. PETROCELLI:

Q. When you were in the Chicago hotel room packing up, Mr. Simpson,
you checked around and looked for any blood?

A. No.

Q. And it is true, sir, that there was not any blood anywhere in that
hotel room except for a small stain on a hand towel, true?

A. I don't know.

Q. You did not see any blood anywhere else except on a hand towel,
true?

A. I don't even know if I saw it on that.

Q. Okay.

And you didn't see any blood on the telephone, for example, did you?

A. No.

Q. And after you cut your finger, or you saw blood on your finger, you
did use the telephone, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you didn't, at the end of the visit to the room, before you
departed, go around cleaning up blood, right?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put on the towel.

What exhibit number, Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 1313.

MR. PETROCELLI: 1313.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of a blood-stained
hand towel was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No.
1313.)

(Exhibit 1313 displayed on TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's the hand towel that you believe that you
used at some point?

A. I don't know. I would assume, so.

Q. Well, don't assume anything.

A. Okay.

Q. Is that the only time you saw blood, was on that hand towel?

A. I don't recall if I even saw blood on that hand towel.

Q. That's a hand towel that you used to sweep the glass into the sink?

A. I don't know.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me ask for the picture of the glass in the sink.
What exhibit number is it, Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 1316.

THE COURT: 1316 on the TV monitor.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of a broken glass in
a sink was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 1316.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's how you left the sink, Mr. Simpson, with
the glass in it?

A. Well, I don't know that, if that's how -- certainly there was glass
in the sink when I left.

Q. And you didn't see any blood on any piece of glass, true?

A. I don't think I looked for any blood on the glass.

Q. Whether or not you looked, you didn't see any, true?

A. Well, I can't assume, so I don't know.

Q. Now, when you said earlier that after this incident occurred where
the glass broke and you saw blood, that you may have leaned on the bed
at some point in time, right?

A. I know that after I cut my hand at that point because I was going
back and forth to the bed on numerous occasions, and whenever I was on
the bed, I was -- you know, I was on the bed, whenever I was on the
phone, I was the on bed.

Q. So I take it, that by lying on this bed against these pillows, to
talk on the phone, that your left hand would be the -- to left side of
the bed, and your right hand to would be more to the center of the
bed, true?

MR. BAKER: There's no foundation for the position he was in at the
time he was talking on the phone.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me. No speaking objections.

MR. BAKER: I don't take advice from you, Mr. Petrocelli. THE COURT:
Overruled.

You may answer, if you can.

A. Well, I think from what I can see of the side table, I probably had
the phone on the bed, and at some point -- and I don't know exactly
where I was sitting -- I was sitting on the bed or what, and the
telephone was sitting on the bed. That isn't what was on my mind.

Q. Possibly you were sitting with your back up against the headboard
and against the pillows; is that true?

A. I doubt that.

Q. You doubt that?

A. Yeah.

Q. You wouldn't be sitting the other way, facing the headboard, would
you, bringing the phone all the way down to this side of the bed?

A. I would think that I was probably sitting facing this way
(indicating) more than the -- any other way.

And at a few times, they were calling me right back, after I was ready
to go.

Q. You mean sitting on the edge of the bed here (indicating) facing --

A. Just --

Q. -- facing the wall?

A. Maybe that wall.

Q. This wall (indicating)?

Which wall? Why don't you point to it.

A. I guess there was a wall out here somewhere. I may have been
sitting that way. I may have got my back up into the headboard.

I was on the phone many, many times. And how I was sitting on the bed
is not something that I was really making any -- paying any attention
to.

Q. And when blood was dropped in the center of the bed, it was from
your left hand, true?

A. It could well have been.

Q. You didn't bleed from your right hand?

A. No.

Q. Now, when you testified earlier that you put your your phone in the
grip, right, when you left Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. And your cell phone case, too, in the grip?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, when you got to the hotel room, did you remove the either the
cell phone or the cell phone case from your grip?

A. I doubt it.

Q. Okay.

Did you plug it in or anything?

A. I doubt it.

Q. And when you got ready to leave that hotel room, you said that you
put on -- well, what did you wear when you left?

A. My memory is that I put on whatever I was wearing originally. I
just threw on whatever I wore there.

Q. Okay.

Well, you wore it to the hotel room, Mr. Simpson, this sort of
stone-washed jean outfit, with a white shirt?

A. Yes.

Q. And you testified at your deposition that when you got ready to
leave this hotel room, you were thinking about putting on that same
outfit, but you didn't, and instead you put on a different outfit. Is
that true, sir?

A. No. I think I put it on, and at some point, I knew I had gotten,
from my hands, some blood on it.

At some point, I threw up, but that was on the airplane. And I don't
recall changing on the airplane the pants, but I'm pretty sure I did
that in the room.

Q. You did what?

A. Changed into the black pants.

Q. That you ultimately were seen wearing?

A. Yes.

Q. So you didn't leave that hotel room with those blue pants on,
right?

A. I don't think so.

Q. And those blue pants had blood on them, right?

A. Whatever. Whatever.

I have a memory of getting on the airplane. I believe the girl brought
me a band-aid, because coming in and out of the bathroom, I would --
there was a big, square water thing on my pants from throwing up. And
my memory is that I changed before I left the hotel, but I could have
done it on the plane, but my memory is that it was in the hotel before
I left.

Q. And you had blood on those pants, actually, from the night before,
didn't you?

A. No.

Q. You had spilled (sic) some blood from your finger when you were
going from Los Angeles to Chicago, right?

A. No.

Q. And put those pants on and left the hotel room, sir, in those
blue-jean pants, didn't you?

A. I kind of -- that's what I felt that I did. But I also remember --
I know I changed because I had thrown up on them, also.

So I'm pretty sure I did it at the hotel, but I could have done it in
the airplane.

Q. And when you went downstairs, you were --

Well, before we get downstairs, you made three phone calls from your
hotel room in Chicago to this man Jim Merrill, right?

A. I would think at least three.

Q. And he left you a a 708 cell phone number, right?

A. I know I had a cell phone number because when I originally called
him, he said he's on his way --

Q. And he --

A. -- and I called him at various times, wondering exactly where he
was, until I finally went down and tried to find a cab.

Q. Let's take it one by one.

When you first called him, you asked him to come back to pick you up
and take you to the airport, right?

A. I told him I had to go.

Q. And you called him at his cell phone number, right?

A. I don't -- I'm pretty sure I called him at his house.

Q. Right.

And he lived 45 minutes away in the suburbs, didn't he, sir?

A. No. He told me he lived pretty close is what he told me.

Q. He lived 30 to 45 minutes away; did he not tell you that?

A. No. He told me he lived relatively close.

And I said, are you coming?

And he said, yeah, I should be there -- I thought he said in a
half-hour.

Q. And now, you could have simply taken a cab from downstairs and not
bothered the gentleman, correct?

A. When I got --

Q. Is that true?

A. When I got --

Q. You could have gotten a cab?

A. No, I couldn't have.

Q. You could not have gone downstairs and asked the front desk to send
you a cab if there wasn't one already; isn't that your testimony?

A. I did that.

Q. Okay.

And there was no need, then, to call Mr. Merrill, was there?

A. I had already called Mr. Merrill before I got downstairs.

Q. You could have called downstairs and asked them to send a cab, too?

A. I did that. I got -- when I got downstairs, I asked for a cab, and
15 minutes later, there was still no cab.

Q. From your hotel room, you could have called immediately, say, you
know, get a cab waiting for me; the moment I get down, I want to hop
in the cab and go to the airport?

A. I suppose I could have done that.

Q. You didn't do that?

A. He said he'd be there in a half-hour.

Q. Now, you called Merrill once; you called Merrill twice; you called
Merrill three times from your hotel room, right?

A. Yes.

Q. The second time, Mr. Merrill told you on the telephone, he goes:
"Look, I'm pretty far away and you probably should get some
alternative transportation," true?

A. No, that's not true.

Q. So if he testified under oath to that in his deposition, he would
be lying; is that true?

A. That's correct.

Q. He --

A. He told me he was on his way and he'd get there as soon as he can.

Q. And the truth of the matter is, Mr. Simpson, that the reason you
were so anxious to get Mr. Merrill back to your hotel room is not
because you needed a ride, but because he had your golf clubs, right?

A. No, that's not correct.

Q. And in that golf club bag -- you put that other bag over near the
Bentley, right?

A. I suppose it was still in there, yes.

Q. And that's why you really wanted Mr. Merrill back, right?

A. No. I could have waited and took the 10 o'clock plane that Cathy
add arranged, but I didn't want to, so I took a 9:15 flight that I had
arranged.

Q. Okay.

Well, let me read now from your deposition.

MR. PETROCELLI: Page 1976, Mr. Baker.

MR. BAKER: Line?

MR. PETROCELLI: 8.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) This concerns what you wore --

A. Yes.

Q. -- when you left the hotel. What clothing did you put on when you
left Chicago to go back to Los Angeles? I started off with some jeans,
and I ended up -- before I left with some black pants and a white
shirt and whatever. Before you -- Before you left the hotel. Yeah. I
changed before I left the hotel. Q. So when you left the hotel, you
had black pants on and a white shirt and you stayed in that outfit all
the way till you got to the rest of the evening, right. Yes.

Okay?

A. Um-hum. Well --

Q. That was your testimony under oath?

A. That still basically is what I believe happened.

Q. Okay. Now, when you went --

Now, when you went downstairs, you waited outside for Mr. Merrill,
correct?

A. When I went downstairs, I went to the desk; I checked out --

Q. I'm just asking you whether you waited outside; I'm trying to skip
through some --

A. No. By that time, I was waiting for the cab.

Q. You were waiting outside.

A. Before I walked outside the hotel, I told them to call me a cab.

Whichever got there first, I would have taken.

Q. And then, while you were waiting for a cab, you're sitting on a
bench outside, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And a Hertz colleague of yours drove up, a man named Jack Johnson,
right?

A. That's right.

Q. And you told Jack Johnson that you were going to -- you were
waiting to catch a cab to the airport, right?

A. I think I told him, can somebody take me to the airport.

Q. And he had with him an employee by the name of Raymond Kilduff,
right?

A. I have no idea.

Q. And this fellow that was with Mr. Johnson ended up taking you to
the airport, right?

A. Yeah.

Q. Okay.

And you told Mr. Johnson, before leaving for the airport, that you
wanted to make sure you got your golf clubs back, didn't you?

A. No, I don't think that's correct. I may have mentioned that Mr.
Merrill was coming, and I was waiting for him, and if he can get to
that -- I think we tried to call him from the car, to tell him that we
were on our way to the airport and for him to, if he went to the
airport -- just what flight I was on, if he wanted to put them on that
flight.

Q. If Mr. Kilduff said that, he would be mistaken, true?

A. I think in substance, possibly no. But what I just said to you, I
think, is more accurate.

Q. If Mr. Kilduff testified in his deposition that before leaving the
airport, you told Mr. Johnson, in his presence, that you wanted to
make sure your golf clubs got back, Mr. Kilduff would not be telling
the truth?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: I object.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that correct?

MR. BAKER: Hearsay and argumentative.

A. That's correct.

THE COURT: Just a minute; there's an objection.

Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) After you got in the car with Mr. Kilduff --

MR. BAKER: May that be stricken?

THE COURT: It's stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) After you got in the car with Mr. Kilduff, you
told Mr. Kilduff that you wanted your golf clubs to get to the
airport, and asked him to make sure they got on the flight, correct?

A. I told him Mr. -- I think we tried to call Mr. Merrill, I'm not
sure, and I told him that -- just tell him to put them on the flight;
if he can, put them on the flight, because I was going to try to make
the 9:15 flight that I had arranged, opposed to the 10 o'clock flight
that Cathy had arranged.

Q. Now, in fact, while you were waiting to get in the car to leave to
go to the airport, you were called in to the hotel front desk by the
clerk, telling you that Mr. Merrill was on the phone, right?

A. Yes. And he was five minutes away or something.

Q. And Mr. -- you told Mr. Merrill to get those clubs on the next
flight, true?

A. I told him I couldn't wait; if he can, put them -- if he can, go
straight to the airport; otherwise, put them on another flight.

Q. And when -- when you left that Chicago hotel room, sir, at no time
did you change your clothes, true?

A. I believe that I had changed before I got on the plane.

I do recall being on the plane and my hand was bleeding pretty bad,
and I think the stewardess brought me another band-aid, and I went in
the bathroom and cleaned it.

And I don't have a distinct memory of changing my pants on the
airplane. It could have happened. My memory is, I did it in the hotel
room.

Q. You did not wear, when you left the hotel and on your way to the
airport, a blue-jean outfit and loafers, true?

A. I think I had a blue-jean top, for sure.

Q. Blue-jean pants?

A. Pants, I believe I had -- I believe I put on the black pants before
I left the hotel. I could have done it on the airplane.

My memory is, I still did it -- I still did it in my hotel room.

Q. Well, I read you your deposition, sir.

A. Yes.

Q. And you said you put on those black pants and white shirt when you
-- before you left the hotel room?

A. It's the same white shirt that I would have had on.

Q. At no time is your testimony, here in court, that at no time while
you were in that car driving with Mr. Kilduff and on that airplane,
sitting next to Mr. Partridge, did you have blue-jean pants on, true?

A. My memory is that I changed the pants before I left.

I do remember throwing up on the airplane and bleeding, where the girl
brought me a napkin. And I don't remember if I -- if I changed pants
on the airplane. I could have.

My memory is that I did it at my hotel room, before I left.

Q. Now, when you were sitting, waiting for Mr. Merrill or a cab to
pick you up, you called Mr. Kato Kaelin on the telephone, did you not?

A. I don't know. I was trying to call everybody.

Q. You tried to call Mr. Kaelin, right?

A. I don't recall if that was before I got on the airplane or when I
was sitting out front. I -- I don't recall when that was.

Q. Well, you tried reaching him, right?

A. I tried calling everybody. I called everybody.

Q. We're only talking about Mr. Kaelin.

A. Yes, he was one the people I tried to call.

Q. You had never before called Mr. Kaelin from out of town, true?

A. To my knowledge.

Q. Is that true?

A. I was never in this position before.

Q. Is that true, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And you were calling Mr. Kaelin to find out what he told the
police, right?

A. No.

I was trying to get information on what was going on.

Q. And you had admitted in your deposition, did you not, that you made
an association between the murders and the sounds Kato Kaelin had
heard the night before at your deposition?

A. Not particularly.

But obviously, Kato was very upset when I left -- at least that's what
Allan Park characterized it as.

So, yes, I may have made -- I don't recall if I made a connection or
not. I knew I was calling Kato -- it was to get any information 'cause
the police couldn't get any information.

Q. Well, let me read from page 1435 of your deposition, line 12.

"When he talked about those noises, you were concerned that he might
know something about the murder?

"A. What he might have found, I don't know.

"Q. So you made an association between the murder and those -- and the
sounds that Kaelin heard?

"A. I may have."

True, sir?

A. I may have. I just said that.

Q. You may have, in your own thinking, associated the sounds that
Kaelin heard behind his walls with the murder of Nicole?

A. No. What I'm saying to you --

Q. True?

A. No. I told you I may have -- I mean, at the point --

Q. Is it true that you may have made that association, sir?

A. Certainly, since the time, I have made that association.

But certainly at that time, I don't think that that was anything that
was prevalent on my mind, the noises behind Kato's room and the
murders.

I just wanted to know from murder -- from Kato what was going on.

Q. Sir, I wasn't asking you since that time.

At the time you had the call with Kato --

A. Yes.

Q. -- you may have made that association. True or untrue?

A. I don't think so. At the time, I --

Q. True or untrue?

A. I don't know. I can't answer it at the time.

I don't -- my thought process was, just trying to get home and find
out as much information --

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike, Your Honor, all this additional
material.

THE COURT: That will remain.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, on the -- on the airplane, going back to
Los Angeles, you were crying and you were displaying signs of great
distress, right?

A. More than likely.

Q. And yet, you still gave an autograph or two, didn't you?

A. Yes.

Q. So you --

A. -- a lot easier doing that than to get into an argument with
somebody about an autograph.

Q. You are perfectly able, even when you are feeling very low and
devastated, for that matter, to act normal in public and give
autographs?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Objection. Argumentative.

THE WITNESS: I've seen people not get in arguments --

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: -- into debates with the person --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'm only asking if you're capable of doing so,
sir. Yes or no?

A. Evidently, was.

Q. Thank you.

And by the way, before Nicole's death, you were an actor of a number
of years, were you not?

A. That's debatable.

Q. You appeared in many, many roles, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And you're -- in television and motion pictures right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you -- also, you appeared on -- you were a pitch man for a
number of companies, pitching their products?

A. Yes.

Q. So you considered yourself a very effective salesman, didn't you?

A. Salesman --

Q. Yeah.

Q. -- for the companies that you were endorsing?

A. Yes.

I thought my representation was held -- well, with the companies that
I chose to represent.

Q. And you believe you knew how to act?

A. I don't think I've ever called myself an actor in my life. I always
said I was a personality.

I don't think anybody's ever called me an actor.

Q. You recently appeared in a number of roles?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, when you got back to LA, off that airplane --

Well, first of all, before I get to LA --

You had made a number of phone calls, as you said, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And included in those phone calls, were calls to get a criminal
defense lawyer to meet you at Rockingham, right?

A. I was advised by the guy next to me that I should have a lawyer
there, and I told my lawyer that.

Q. Is it your testimony that the only reason that Howard Weitzman was
waiting for you when you got to Rockingham, is because some guy you
never met before on an airplane told you so?

A. I think --

Q. Is that your testimony?

A. I -- well, I think he told you the same thing.

Q. That's your testimony?

A. That's absolutely correct.

Q. And if it wasn't for this perfect stranger, you would have had no
concern for having a lawyer; is that true?

A. That's correct. He was a lawyer. You mentioned his name; I can't
recall his name. You mentioned his name a minute ago. But he was a
lawyer and he, I guess, was listening to me on the phone. And as he, I
guess, testified, he made a suggestion to me that maybe I should have
-- if my lawyer was a criminal lawyer.

And I said no, he's my business lawyer.

He said, "You should call your lawyer back and have someone who's more
of a criminal lawyer there," which I did.

Q. So you're familiar with his testimony, aren't you?

A. I'm familiar with what he told me.

Q. You just recited his testimony, didn't you?

A. I don't think they let him say that on the stand.

Q. Okay.

A. If I'm wrong there, you will show me, but I'm almost a hundred
percent sure. They would not let that gentleman testify to that on the
stand.

Q. Now, when you got to LA, you were met there by Cathy Randa and Skip
Taft, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And they drove you, in Skip's car, to Rockingham, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you arrived at Rockingham, not wearing a blue-jean outfit but
this outfit that you said you put on at the hotel, correct?

A. Black pants with a white shirt.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we have the footage of that?

THE WITNESS: But the same white shirt. I believe I even wore that
underneath my blue-jean top.

MR. FOSTER: Ready. Ready.

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number is this?

That's a white shirt and dark pants you see on that video.

THE WITNESS: That's the same white shirt I wore and -- that's the same
white shirt.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You put those items on at the Chicago hotel
room?

A. I believe the pants -- the shirt I put on right away. The pants may
be different.

Q. You didn't have blue jeans on, did you?

A. No, I -- there, I did not.

Q. And you didn't have them on in the airplane, did you?

A. I believe --

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE WITNESS: I changed in the hotel room.

MR. BAKER: O.J., asked and answered.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

THE WITNESS: As I told you before, I believe I changed at the hotel
room.

But I do recall while I was on the plane, that I not only bled on
myself, I had a lot of water on myself because I threw up on myself.

THE COURT: Did you the get an exhibit number?

MR. FOSTER: 228.

MR. PETROCELLI: 228 -- 228 up there on the video.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You got to Rockingham. You were then taken down
to the police station?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you met at the police station with Detective Lange and
Detective Vannatter and you gave a statement, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

Now, in this statement, in regard to the question of a polygraph test,
you told the police that you had some weird thoughts. Remember that?

A. That's correct.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) They had asked you about taking a polygraph
test and you said, "Wait a minute. I've got some weird thoughts, you
know, about Nicole." Do you recall that?

A. I think I said, yeah, I've had some pretty weird thoughts, yes.

Q. And you were concerned about taking the polygraph test because of
those weird thoughts, correct?

A. I think my biggest concern was, I was really tired I didn't
understand what a polygraph was, and I just wanted to make sure that
it focused on what it was, this particular crime, and not on other
things that may be in your mind.

Q. And those weird thoughts that you had in your mind when they
chatted with you about this, had to do with violence towards Nicole,
true?

A. No, that's not correct.

Q. They had to do with violence, true?

A. I would think in one instance it was violence that Nicole hit my
housekeeper and I wished that my housekeeper would have called the
police on her.

Another instance when she was doing drugs with Faye Resnick, they
crashed into a car an old man and kid was in, they lied to the police
as to who was driving, and I honestly -- and I think I said this to
her parents, I honestly wish she would have got caught, and, you know,
I just felt the things she was doing in those months leading up to
this --

Q. Excuse me.

Can you stick with the question?

A. That's my answer.

Q. Now, when you were asked about the weird thoughts, it is your
testimony that you had in mind an act of violence against Nicole,
true?

A. No, more an act of violence from Nicole hitting my housekeeper,
that my housekeeper would have called the police, and on another
occasion, as I just explained --

Q. Well, let's stick with the housekeeper situation.

A. Yes.

Q. You had in mind an act of violence involving Nicole, true?

A. An act of violence by Nicole.

Q. An act of violence by Nicole against your housekeeper of a number
of years, a woman named Michelle, right?

A. Yes. I mean this was in just --

Q. Excuse me.

Just answer the question.

A. Yes.

Q. And you did not have in mind, sir, any kind of thoughts in your own
thinking, about violence by you against Nicole, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. So you were concerned that you might not pass this polygraph test
because this idea of Nicole's striking your housekeeper might somehow
enter into your thinking, and for that reason, you might fail the
test, true?

MR. BAKER: Objection, there's no foundation for that, it's
argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that true, sir?

A. No.

Q. And in fact, what you said at your deposition is that what you were
thinking about was Nicole hitting your housekeeper, Michelle?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you said at page 1023 --

MR. BAKER: Line?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Starting at 1022, line 25, "I kind of at one
point" --

MR. BAKER: Can you give me a second.

MR. PETROCELLI: Yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) 1022, line 25.

In talking about this question of weird thoughts that you had about
Nicole, you said, "I kind of at one point thought it would have been
nice if Michelle, when Nicole punched her, who was my housekeeper, if
Michelle would have punched her back."

Do you recall giving that testimony?

A. Yeah, part of that. But Michelle would have got beaten up. Michelle
couldn't beat up Nicole.

Q. Excuse me.

Do you recall giving that testimony?

A. Yes.

Q. So hours after your wife's murder, when you're questioned about
this subject, the thoughts that you had in your mind about Nicole had
to do with Nicole hitting your housekeeper and how you hoped that your
housekeeper would have punched Nicole back, is that true, sir?

A. That's not true.

Q. That's what you said sir, correct?

A. That's not what I said hours after. I think what my process was is
that I had a lot of weird thoughts about those type of things, I
wanted to know just how true-blue it was, and eventually I told them I
would -- I would do one after I had got some sleep and stuff.

As a matter of fact, that was something that they were concerned about
too.

Q. And you did take the test, and you failed it, didn't you?

MR. BAKER: Objection.

A. That's not correct.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You failed it, true?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Objection.

A. That's not correct.

Q. You got a minus 22?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor --

MR. BAKER: I want to approach.

This is an outrage.

THE COURT: Approach the bench.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

MR. PETROCELLI: First of all, the witness himself just volunteered
himself how he, you know, wanted to take a lie detector test. It was
refused.

Trying to argue --

MR. BAKER: Well --

MR. PETROCELLI: -- Trying to argue that he had taken what he would
have asked, and that's exactly what Mr. Baker argued to the jury in
his opening statement, on page 110 of the transcript, that he had no
reason to say what he said here other than to suggest that Mr. Simpson
was totally innocent, and had he taken the test, which he was happy to
do, he would have passed it.

And he has absolutely opened the door on that issue, and I am entitled
to follow up, to demonstrate not only did he -- did he take it, but he
failed it, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: Well, two things:

One, he never took a lie detector test.

Two, he didn't fail a lie detector test.

And three, a letter sent to Vannatter and Lange, as well as also the
D.A.'s office, indicating that there was a lie -- they would offer for
him to take a lie detector test at the same time that they offered the
services of Baden, and he offered the services of Lee, and let the
chips fall where they may, the LAPD refused all of that.

Now, to infer that he has taken a lie detector test and failed it is
absolutely false.

MR. PETROCELLI: I've not inferred he -- I'm asking the question. He
opened the door. I have the right to ask him.

MR. BAKER: No.

MR. PETROCELLI: We know he went to take the test the 14th, 15th, at
the offices of Edward Gelb.

It's all outlined in the book.

I'm going to ask him about it, Your Honor, particularly since he
opened the door wide open.

MR. BAKER: No, no. There's a couple of things -- and I want to make a
record relative to that book. And I want to make a record relative to
the Court's ruling that you say that that book -- because we have not
filed a lawsuit, we have waived any attorney-client privilege.

That is, to me, absolutely without foundation.

And the -- in the law anywhere, we have never waived any
attorney-client privilege. The fact that somebody else attempts to
waive an attorney-client privilege for Mr. Simpson does not waive it
for him at all.

And he has never waived it.

And I think the Court's ruling is improper.

And I think for them to bring this up is terribly improper. That is
all because Kardashian waives the attorney-client privilege, or does
whatever he does and gives an interview for a book because he gets 40
percent of the proceeds.

And it's my understanding, presently he's under investigation by the
state bar over exactly this.

That doesn't waive his privilege. Only the holder of the privilege can
waive it. The holder is O.J. Simpson.

MR. PETROCELLI: We've heard, Your Honor, one month ago, when this book
came out, counsel of record in this case, F. Lee Bailey, Mr. Leonard's
partner, went on national television on the Larry King Show, and spoke
openly about this test, openly.

Notwithstanding the Court's gag order, he talked about how Mr. Simpson
went there, and he didn't think they asked all the right control
questions, and on and on.

And the point is, basically, this -- not only did the witness get it
out to the jury, but Mr. Baker, in opening statement -- we didn't
utter a word about polygraph tests, and he opened that door. And he
cannot have it both ways.

MR. BAKER: That is absolutely --

THE COURT: Are you going to address the issue of the book once more?

MR. PETROCELLI: The book -- this book was put out by Simpson's
colleague, Schiller, who wrote his first book with him. He, in
consultation not only with Kardashian, but with all of Mr. Simpson's
lawyers, all of them, Dershowitz and Cochran and -- what's that other
guy -- Scheck, and Neufeld and on and on.

This book has been in the works for a long time. They never once filed
any action to enjoin it. They never ever tried to stop the publication
of it.

You can't simply allow material to go out there and then claim it's
privileged without doing anything to stop the publication of it.

That is an absolute waiver.

A waiver doesn't have to be in writing. Waivers are frequently
implications and acquiescence.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. BAKER: Wait a second. That is not true. His representations are
absolutely false. And that's why he's making a bunch of accusations he
has no foundation to make.

Peter Neufeld wrote every lawyer in this case, as Mr. Simpson's
lawyer, he wrote Random House, he wrote Schiller, and he said, if you
do what you say you're going to do, there's going to be a lawsuit and
there is going to be a lawsuit.

And for him to say we have acquiesced and waived it is absolutely an
absolute bold-faced lie. It is a --

MR. PETROCELLI: Absolute filed for injunctive relief --

MR. BAKER: Let me finish.

MR. PETROCELLI: Lower your voice.

MR. BAKER: No, I will not lower my voice.

THE COURT: I think you better lower your voice.

MR. BAKER: I think it's an outrage.

Simpson has done everything possible to stop that book.

We represented to the Court and read portions of a letter to this
Court, November 28 letter, and there has been at least four or five
more pieces of communication to Schiller, to Random House, and to all
of his lawyers, that they have not -- that he has not waived the
attorney-client privilege.

Now, to say that he's waived it by acquiescence is a bold-faced lie.
It hasn't happened. He has never waived it.

THE COURT: When did Mr. Simpson first get notice that it was going to
be published?

MR. BAKER: That the book was going to be published?

THE COURT: Um-hum.

MR. BAKER: About mid-September.

I had a conversation with Mr. Scheck in early September, when they
indicated that they were going to publish this book.

And there was a plethora of communications back and forth ordering
them not to.

THE COURT: Was there any effort to file a -- file for an injunction?

MR. BAKER: My understanding is they got a representation that the book
wasn't going to be published. And then it was published. And that's
why there was no injunction filed for it.

But Mr. Neufeld -- we'll get the communications, and he can wait on
this until we get the communications. I will get the communications
from Peter Neufeld and have them faxed.

MR. PETROCELLI: This tells the tale. (Indicating to transcript.) This
is a red herring about what -- Mr. Simpson sat for interviews for this
book. He gave all the tapes up. That's how -- they gave the tapes --
he gave his notes up, too.

MR. BAKER: That's absolutely not true.

MR. PETROCELLI: Why does Mr. Baker tell the jury that Mr. Simpson was
more than happy to take a lie detector test, but they refused, other
than to suggest that he was innocent and would have passed the test?

This -- that's the only inference he wanted the jury to draw.

THE COURT: Okay. I'll stand on my ruling.

Overruled.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, you were testifying a few moments
ago about how you were, once you understood the process, happy to take
a lie detector test, but it was refused.

Do you recall that?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, in fact, Mr. Simpson, before you communicated that position to
the D.A.'s office, you went to the office of Dr. Edward Gelb on June
15, did you not?

A. I don't know.

Q. You went to the office of some person on Wilshire Boulevard and sat
down and were wired up for a lie detector test, true?

A. That's not true.

I mean that's not true in totality.

Q. Well, what do you mean, "in totality?"

A. We didn't take a lie detector test.

What I was asking him is how did it work, and I wanted to understand
it. And he sort of gave me an example how it --

Q. And he hooked you up to the process and started asking you
questions about Nicole, and Nicole's death and whether you were
responsible for it, true?

A. I don't know if he went that far with it.

Q. Okay.

At the end of that process, you scored a minus 22, true?

A. I don't know what the score was.

Q. And you understood that was a polygraph test, right?

A. I understood that once I finished, and I understood it, that I was
willing to do one for the police.

Q. And you understood that what you were doing that day was a
polygraph test, on June 15; true or untrue?

A. Not the way they explained it to me, no.

Q. You were wired up to a polygraph machine, were you not?

A. They wired me up to something and they -- the guy started to
explain to me about how it works, and we went through it once for my
understanding.

Once I understood how it worked, I told my lawyers, let's do it.

And we wanted it to be in evidence.

Q. And the minus 22, by the way, is a score indicating extreme
deception, true?

A. I don't --

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object to that.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: There's no foundation for that at all.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Well, Mr. Simpson, when I asked you in your
deposition, page 1284, lines 4 through 8, I asked you --

MR. BAKER: Page? Wait a minute.

MR. PETROCELLI: You got it, Mr. Baker?

MR. BLASIER: I'm getting there.

(Indicating to computer.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you went to this polygraph examiner's
office on Tuesday, June 14, true?

A. I don't know.

Q. It was that time frame, right?

A. I believe it was that week; it was -- that week is kind of fuzzy
for me.

Q. And I asked you in your deposition in January: (Reading) Question:
"Have you ever taken a polygraph test?

"A. No.

"Q. I was going to say, since Nicole's death, have you taken a
polygraph test?

"A. No."

That was untrue, wasn't it, sir?

A. As far as I know, I didn't take a polygraph test.

Q. You did, in fact, sit for that test, didn't you?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. When you returned from the police station, you went back to your
office in Brentwood, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you went back to your house and had some people over that
night, right?

A. That -- there was a lot of people there coming in and out.

Q. And you had a conversation with a fellow named Ron Shipp that
night?

A. I don't recall having a conversation with Ron.

Q. And the subject of a polygraph test was on your mind because the
police had mentioned it to you earlier in the day, true?

A. No.

Q. And you asked -- Mr. Shipp is a -- was a friend of yours, right?

A. We were friendly, yes.

Q. And he had been a member of the police department for a number of
years, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you understood that he knew about such things as blood tests,
and DNA tests, and polygraph tests?

A. I don't think I ever thought about that, no.

Q. And you only had some close friends and relatives over to your
house that night, correct?

A. No. All types of people that I knew casually, people that I knew
well; people were coming in and out.

Q. Mr. Kardashian was there, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Your long-time friend, Joe Delaney, right?

A. Joe came at one point.

Q. Your children, Jason and Arnelle?

A. And friends of theirs.

Q. Your mother's two sisters, brother-in-law, and your assistant,
Cathy Randa, they were up there?

A. Among all the many people coming in and out, yes.

Q. At some point in the evening, I think you had a private
conversation with Mr. Shipp, true?

A. No, I never had a private conversation.

Q. And you asked --

MR. BAKER: Excuse me. I'm going to object.

A. No, I never had a conversation with Shipp.

Q. Isn't it true that you asked Mr. Shipp --

MR. BAKER: I would object, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) -- about --

MR. BAKER: I would object.

MR. PETROCELLI: Excuse me.

MR. BAKER: I would object based on that last answer. There's no
foundation. It's totally argumentative.

MR. PETROCELLI: I don't have to accept that answer.

THE COURT: All right. Overruled as admission of party, if you can
prove it up. Otherwise, it's going to be stricken.

MR. PETROCELLI: Absolutely, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You had a conversation with a man named Ron
Shipp, and the subject matter was polygraph tests, right?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you asked Mr. Shipp what -- in effect, what would happen if you
took a polygraph test, and you had dreams of killing Nicole, would
that somehow interfere with the test and cause you to fail it, true?

A. That's absolutely wrong.

Q. And you asked Mr. Shipp how long it took for DNA tests to come
back, true?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Now, the next morning, you got up and you went over to your office at
Brentwood again, right?

A. At some point, yes.

Q. This is, like, Tuesday morning now?

A. Yes.

Q. The 14th. And you had your secretary, Cathy Randa, call this fellow
up in Chicago, Jim Merrill, correct?

A. I believe so. I don't know if -- that he called -- I did know --
yeah, I may have told Cathy to give him a buzz.

Q. You had asked Mr. Merrill in the conversation about your golf
clubs, right?

A. No.

Q. The subject of your golf clubs came up, correct?

A. Not with me, no.

Q. Did the subject of the golf clubs come up at all in your telephone
conversation with you between you and Jim Merrill on Tuesday, June 14?

A. I don't recall.

Q. Yes or no?

A. I don't recall. I know I got on the phone with him. I was just
apologizing to him for the way I spoke to him the day before.

Q. So is the answer to my question that the golf clubs didn't come up
at all in your conversation with Merrill?

A. I don't know if -- he may have said something to me that he did
make the flight or something, he may have said it, but I don't -- I
know I didn't question him about the golf clubs.

Q. I'm not asking you if you questioned him.

Did the topic come up, yes or no?

A. I don't know -- I don't know.

Q. Did --

A. I know that I -- the conversation with him was me apologizing to
him, cause I was really, really rude to him the day before.

Q. Now, this is a man that you had never met other than the day
before, right?

A. He's a very nice guy. That's correct.

Q. He drove you to the airport?

A. Yes.

Q. And you think you were somewhat abrupt with him the day after you
found out about Nicole's death, is that what you're saying?

A. No, the times that I spoke with him after I found out about the
death, I think I got him on the road coming and I may have even cursed
him, but I was -- I was -- I'm normally not rude to people. And I was
totally, totally rude to him.

Q. And so you were rude to him because you were trying to --
frantically questioning him about getting to the hotel to pick you up,
true?

A. Yes, basically.

Q. And the next day, even though your ex-wife had just been murdered,
you felt it appropriate and necessary to call this man up just to
apologize to him, is that what you're saying?

A. I think when we got to the office -- Cathy did a number of things
that day that -- I don't know -- I don't know how to act -- I didn't
know how to act that day. It was like, hey, you know, that guy was
really rude to him. I think I was in a meeting with Skip. And she
called him, and she came into the office and said, you know, he's on
the phone, if you want to speak to him, and I said, yeah, I'll say
hello to him. We were in a pause from what I was doing. And I just
told him I was sorry for the way I talked yesterday, but you
understand now why.

Q. You apologized to Mr. Merrill?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, right after you got off the phone call, Mr. Simpson, is it not
true that you then asked Mr. Kardashian to take you to get your golf
clubs which Mr. Merrill had informed you had been shipped to Los
Angeles and were at LAX?

A. That's not correct.

Q. Isn't it true that you specifically asked Mr. Kardashian at the
office, in the presence of Skip Taft, even, to take you to the airport
to get your golf clubs?

A. That's not correct.

Q. And isn't it not -- is it also true, sir, that you were advised by
them, perhaps Mr. Shapiro as well, not to go to the airport and get
your golf clubs because it would look bad?

A. That's not correct.

MR. BAKER: Object on the grounds when he gets a negative answer, his
next question is "isn't it also true." I object to that as being
argumentative, Your Honor.

This may invade the attorney-client privilege.

THE COURT: Sustained as to the latter.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Well, Mr. Kardashian was not there as an
attorney based on the deposition testimony.

THE COURT: You said Shapiro also.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Let me ask you this: Shapiro -- Mr. Kardashian,
he told you -- did he tell you that you should not go to the airport
to get your golf clubs, yes or no?

A. To make a correction, at that moment I was looking to Bob for legal
advice and that's why he was in the meeting with me.

To answer your question, the answer is no.

Q. Okay.

And it's your testimony, sir, that you did not leave the office with
Mr. Kardashian and drive to the airport to get your golf clubs?

A. Eventually we did, yes.

Q. But it was not your purpose to go get the clubs, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. You did not ask Mr. Kardashian to take you to get the clubs,
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. But after you left the office, you did end up, somehow, at the
airport and got your clubs, true?

A. Yes, after we did a few things, we did do that.

Q. And you testified in your deposition that you were feeling low and
you just wanted to drive around, right?

A. No, we were driving around after going by Nicole's house and we
were waiting for my children and I just -- we were on the Santa Monica
freeway actually, on Bundy at the Santa Monica freeway, and I think we
discovered that they were still 40 or 50 minutes around. And at that
time we were -- he said, what do you want to do? I said, just drive
around, and then at one point we were near the airport, I said we can
get my clubs at the airport.

Q. You happened to be near the airport, driving around?

A. We were on Bundy, going south on Bundy at the time, yes.

Q. Well, Bundy is nowhere near the airport?

A. Well, I take Bundy to the airport many times. I think it's 8
minutes from the airport where we were on Bundy. Bundy goes all the
way down till just about to the airport.

Q. And you said, look, since we're near the airport, why don't we hop
out and get the clubs, right?

A. Yeah, there was nothing to do, I was trying to kill 50 minutes
waiting for my kids.

Q. Then you got those clubs, put them in Kardashian's car?

A. Well, Kardashian put them in his car.

Q. Rolls Royce, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You and he drove in that Rolls with the golf clubs, back to his
house, right?

A. Yes. And the kids were getting there about the time we got there.

Q. And you stayed in the house the rest of the week, right?

A. I stayed at his house essentially the rest of the week.

Q. And there was one point in that week, maybe that same day, you went
out to those golf clubs that were in Mr. Kardashian's garage, true?

A. I think that there was one day during the week that I was in the
house with a club, yes.

Q. And you went into the garage one day and went into the bag and
opened it up, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, you mentioned a couple times about your kids.

In fact, you did not see or speak to your children until late
afternoon on Tuesday, June 14, when they arrived at Kardashian's
house, true?

A. I believe it was about 2 o'clock, 1:30, 2 o'clock, yes.

Q. And you testified in your deposition that the reason you didn't
talk to your kids sooner is you wanted to get yourself together, fair,
true?

A. Partially. I called at one point to talk to the kids and ended up
talking to Judy. I think the kids were out playing. And the next day I
think I was a little more composed for my children, yes.

Q. You wanted to compose yourself first before you saw your children
who had just lost their mother, true?

A. No, that's wrong.

Q. Is that true?

A. That's -- that was wrong.

Q. That's all, don't need to go any further.

A. That's wrong, what you just said.

Q. Okay.

Now, on the 15th of June, you went to Dr. Huizenga's office and --
we've seen the photos, and you had photos taken of the various cuts
and abrasions, right?

A. I believe so.

Q. And as of that point in time on the 15th of June, you had three
cuts and seven abrasions, true?

A. I don't know.

Q. And if that's what Dr. Huizenga said, you wouldn't dispute that,
right?

A. No.

Q. And other than the one that you think -- on the finger near the
joint -- middle joint, that you think you cut at the hotel room in
Chicago, you have no explanation for the other two cuts or the seven
abrasions, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, on the 17th of June, you were sleeping over at the
Kardashians' house and were awakened that morning, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had a whole legal team assembled over there, right?

A. Bob Kardashian and Bob Shapiro.

Q. You had people like Dr. Henry Lee and Dr. Michael Baden there as
well?

A. Yeah. I don't think I really knew who they were at the time.

Q. And you had Dr. Huizenga there as well?

A. Yes.

Q. And folks were examining you and taking photographs and so forth,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And at some point you were informed that morning that you would be
arrested, right?

A. That's correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, this might be -- or is it too early?

THE COURT: No, it's fine.

10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(Jurors resumed their respective seats.)

(Counsel displayed exhibit No. 205 diagram entitled "875 South Bundy
Drive Biological Evidence.")

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, you told the police that you did
not cut yourself and had not been bleeding at Bundy as far as you
could remember, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

So you are aware that blood matching your blood was found at Bundy,
correct?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Are you aware of that?

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I was told that, yes, that -- that was the representation.

Q. And you've seen exhibits like this one that indicate the locations
where the blood drops were found, correct?

(Indicating Exhibit 205.)

A. Correct.

Q. And prior to the evening of June 12, 1994, you didn't bleed at
Bundy at any of those locations, correct?

A. Not to my knowledge, no.

Q. You don't recall bleeding at Bundy at any of those spots where
blood was found prior to the evening of June 12, correct?

A. Other than the backyard possibly. Not to my knowledge.

Q. Okay.

Sir, do you have any explanation whatsoever why blood found matching
your blood -- why there was blood found matching your blood at Bundy?

A. Represented to be my blood, no.

Q. You have no explanation whatsoever for why each of those blood
drops that was found had DNA matching your DNA, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. And you have no explanation whatsoever why blood and DNA matching
yours were found at the rear gate at Bundy, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: Steve, what exhibit was the one I just had, for the
record?

And which one is this when you get it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I've put up a board, Mr. Simpson, entitled
"Rockingham Biological Evidence."

(Exhibit 208 displayed.)

MR. FOSTER: Previous one was 205 and this one is 208.

MR. PETROCELLI: This is Exhibit 208 and the previous Bundy board was
-- Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 205.

MR. PETROCELLI: Exhibit 205.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, in the earlier board I showed you,
Bundy, remember the Bundy blood drops?

A. The board you just had there?

Q. Yes, when you said you may have bled sometime in the backyard.

Do you recall?

A. The back driveway area, yes.

Q. The back driveway in the alley?

A. Yes.

Q. You weren't there to you suggest that you had dropped those blood
droplets on the pathway, were you?

A. No.

Q. You recognize the photos here as the interior of your house?

A. Yes.

Q. And now, you see -- let's take these two photos in the lower
left-hand corner of the bathroom floor, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, that's your bathroom floor, right?

A. Yes.

Q. You have any explanation, sir, how blood found on the bathroom
floor, that matched your blood, was found there?

A. Well, one, I don't know if they ever determined it matched my
blood. That's where I shave and that's where I do all my -- do --

Q. Did you bleed on the bathroom floor on the evening of June 12, yes
or no?

A. I don't know.

Q. Didn't you testify previously in this -- in this courtroom, that
the only time that you saw blood on the evening of June 12, 1994, for
that matter any time that day, was in the kitchen?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

So you did not see any blood on the bathroom floor; is that what
you're saying?

A. That's correct.

Q. You have no explanation for how your blood got there?

A. If it's my blood. I don't know if they ever tested it. I would
assume it could have happened any time that I shaved in my bathroom.

Q. You would assume that?

A. Yes.

Q. But you don't know?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, you see the picture of the -- the foot of your bed, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you see the rug there?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's your bedroom, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Those are your socks on the floor?

A. That's what they tell me, yes.

Q. They look like socks you own, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And do you have any explanation, sir, for how blood matching your
blood got on those socks?

A. No.

Q. You have any explanation for how blood matching Nicole's blood got
on those socks?

A. No.

Q. And you have any explanation for how blood matching yourself got on
the foyer --

A. No.

Q. -- floor?

A. No.

Q. You -- it's your testimony that you can't tell the jury how any of
that blood got there, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: Do you have the cable?

(Counsel displays Exhibit 2137 entitled "Blood Drops at 360 North
Rockingham Avenue, June 13, 1994," containing diagram and
photographs.)

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number is this board?

MR. FOSTER: 2137.

MR. PETROCELLI: Which? 2137?

MR. FOSTER: The picture.

MR. PETROCELLI: On the television monitor is 2137.

Can you focus that a little bit.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you recognize that?

A. It looks like it's the back side of my house.

Q. Okay.

That's the area behind Kato Kaelin's room, correct?

A. It could be, yes.

Q. And you see this TV cable coming down the side of the wall?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you have any explanation, sir, for how the blood on that cable
got there?

MR. BAKER: There's been no such -- there's been no foundation that
that's blood.

THE COURT: Overruled.

MR. PETROCELLI: We did presumptively.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You may answer.

A. I never knew there was blood on that cable.

Q. Let's assume there was blood?

A. Yes.

Q. You have any explanation how it got there?

A. No.

MR. BAKER: I object to the assumption.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. No.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) By the way, on this area right opposite the air
conditioner, this is the area that adjoins the Salinger property to
your property, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And there's a fence that goes down the whole side of this property,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And this fence, when you're standing on your side of the property,
is about five feet high, right?

A. I would think so.

Q. On the other side of the property, on the Salinger side, it goes
down another two or three feet, there's an embankment that goes down
into the driveway, right?

A. I don't -- possibly. I don't ever really remember looking at it.

Q. There's foliage above the fence as you go all the way down this
south pathway?

A. There's foliage very thick going all the way up.

Q. There's an area right opposite the Kato Kaelin room where there's
an opening in the foliage, correct?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. You sure?

A. Yes.

Q. Where there's an opening, and then there's some spikes at the top
of the fence that are bent downwards; did you see that, sir?

A. No I didn't see that.

Q. And if a person were motivated enough he could climb from the
Salinger side of the property onto your side of the property in the
area opposite Kaelin's room, true?

MR. BAKER: Argumentative, speculative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. Didn't you -- Well, we have a deposition.

I'll come back to that.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let's look at the other board, which is that exhibit.

MR. FOSTER: 155.

MR. PETROCELLI: 155.

Let me just turn it a little bit.

(Indicating to Exhibit 155.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Mr. Simpson, you see the various places where
the police found blood drops on your Rockingham driveway?

A. Yes.

Q. And do you have any explanation for how those blood drops got
there?

A. No.

Q. And do you have any explanation for why those blood drops matched
your blood?

A. No.

Q. By the way, that dog sitting there in the middle of the driveway,
that's Chachi, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

(Counsel displays Exhibit 211 entitled "Bronco Evidence.")

MR. PETROCELLI: What subject number is this?

MR. FOSTER: 211.

MR. PETROCELLI: This board is the "Bronco Evidence" board. Out of the
way. (Indicating)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you see this board showing where blood was
found in the Bronco, Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Do you have any explanation for why blood matching yours was found
near the light switch there?

A. No.

Q. Do you have any explanation for why blood matching Nicole's was
found on the carpet in the -- on the driver side?

A. No.

Q. Have you any explanation for why blood matching Ron Goldman was
found on the console area?

A. No.

Q. Or why blood matching yours was found there?

A. No.

Q. Or why blood matching yours was found on the inside door panel,
right where you would open the door to get out --

A. No.

Q. -- using your left hand?

A. No.

Q. You do use your left hand when you exit the door, do you not?

A. I would have, unless my arthritis was kicking up. I would imagine
so, yes.

Q. You're sitting there in your driver seat, you're getting ready to
get out of car and you open the door with your left hand, do you not?

A. Most of the time, yes.

Q. And your left middle finger would contact the area right where that
red spot is indicated, would it not, sir.

A. It possibly could.

Q. Right where you have the scar on your finger, true?

A. Possibly could.

Q. You have no explanation for any -- why any of that blood was there,
true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Now, you don't recall bleeding in the back alleyway or back
driveway of Nicole's condominium in the two or three weeks before her
death, do you?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

You are aware that there is a receipt showing the purchase of two
pairs of Aris leather light gloves by Nicole on December 18, 1990, at
Bloomingdale's in New York, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you had a place in New York, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you and Nicole would stay there during football season or she
would visit with you there, right?

A. That's right.

Q. And the two of you would shop at Bloomingdale's and in Manhattan,
your place?

A. Yeah, among other places. Yes.

Q. And Nicole would buy you things there, right?

A. I don't recall ever -- her ever buying me anything --

Q. She would by you Christmas presents, for example?

A. She would buy Christmas presents for -- she would have a list of
about 100 people, and normally she was in charge of our family to buy
gifts for those hundred or so people.

Q. That included you, right?

A. I'm sure she bought me gifts.

I don't recall her ever buying me anything from Bloomingdale's.

Q. And she bought you some gloves from time to time as gifts, right?

A. Never.

MR. PETROCELLI: And let's put on the photo, Steve.

646, 655, 660, 642,

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's a photograph of you, correct, Mr.
Simpson?

(Indicating to Photo.)

A. Correct.

Q. And you're wearing some gloves there, some black gloves, right?

A. Correct.

Q. From looking at that picture can you tell the style and make of
those gloves?

A. No.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let's look at the next one.

MR. FOSTER: 655.

(Exhibit 655 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's another photograph of you, right?

(Indicating 655.)

A. Correct.

Q. And you're wearing these gloves at football games where you're
acting as an on-field talent person, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: And can you close up on the gloves.

Right there.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Can you identify those gloves, Mr. Simpson?

A. No.

Q. The two pairs that we've shown you in these two pictures, these are
a pair of black Aris leather light gloves, true?

A. I wouldn't know.

Q. Size extra large?

A. I don't -- wouldn't know.

Q. You -- when say you don't know, you don't know one way or the
other, right?

A. Correct.

Q. So you -- so they could be, but you just don't know, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

So you're not saying they're not Aris leather light gloves, correct?

A. Correct.

MR. FOSTER: 660.

(Exhibit 660 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Same question. You can't say one way or the
other what the style is, right?

A. Correct.

Q. So you can't say that that is not an Aris leather light, size extra
large, right?

A. Correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: And 642 --

MR. FOSTER: 646.

MR. PETROCELLI: 646. Excuse me. Pair of brown gloves.

(Exhibit 646 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You had a pair of black gloves and you had a
pair of brown gloves, right?

A. I had numerous --

Q. Including --

A. -- gloves, light brown --

Q. Including black and brown?

A. Brown and off-browns, and various gloves.

Q. You would agree that you had pair of black and a pair of brown of a
particular type of glove, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And that type would be an Aris leather light glove, size extra large,
correct?

A. I wouldn't know that.

Q. But you're not in a position to say that it wasn't such a glove,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

Now, these football photos of you wearing these gloves span a period
of some three years, don't they?

A. Yeah.

What do you mean these gloves?

Q. The pictures that I just showed you, they were starting in January,
'91, was the most -- was the oldest photo and the most recent one was
I believe January of 1994.

MR. BAKER: I object to Mr. Petrocelli testifying.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you know that, sir.

THE COURT: Look at the photos again, and if you want to see if you can
identify them.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Talking about the time period involved.

A. I wore gloves during that time period, but I went through a lot of
gloves during that time period.

Q. Between January 1991 and January 1994, you wore gloves of the type
and color that we saw in these four photographs, true?

A. Yes, I wore various gloves, and I went through a lot of gloves in
that period of time.

Q. Now, sir, you have been unable since the time of Nicole's death on
June 12, 1994, to produce the identical gloves that you're wearing in
these photos; the brown gloves and the black gloves, true?

A. As far as I know, I've only been able to produce one brown glove
that certainly wouldn't be those, or didn't appear to be these because
it had a big lambskin -- was only one glove there, and all the rest of
my gloves, who knows.

(Indicating to TV screen.)

Q. We're just talking about these gloves.

A. I don't know what those gloves are.

Q. The gloves that you're wearing in these photographs, the ones that
just I showed you, the black pair and the brown pair, you're unable to
bring those gloves into this courtroom, true or untrue?

A. Well, I can't tell if this is one of the ones that -- the lambskin
interior because the outside looks just the same. I can't tell if
that's those gloves or not.

Q. You have not brought these gloves to this courtroom, true, sir?

A. Well, there's one glove. You guys have it.

Q. And it is not the same glove?

A. I couldn't tell.

Q. Okay.

A. I couldn't tell.

Q. And other than this one pair of gloves that you say you've shown us
--

A. Not one pair. It's one glove.

Q. One single glove?

A. Yes.

Q. You're unable to bring, and have been unable to bring since
Nicole's death, to the courtroom the identical gloves that you were
actually wearing in these photographs, correct?

A. Unless that one glove is one of these gloves, 'cause I can't tell
the difference on the outside. I wouldn't be able to tell.

Q. Okay.

And we asked you numerous times in the course of this case to produce
gloves that were Aris leather light extra large gloves, brown and
black, and you have been unable to produce gloves matching that
description, correct?

A. The police took all my gloves before I got home so I haven't been
able to bring any gloves.

Q. You're saying the police took those gloves; is that what you're --
what you're saying?

A. I'm saying I've been unable to bring any gloves in.

Q. You don't know where those gloves are, do you, sir?

A. I don't know where the black ones are, the black ones or any of the
gloves at this time.

Q. Let's just focus on these gloves.

You do not know where those brown gloves are, that you are wearing in
that photograph, correct?

A. As I said --

Q. Can you answer that yes or no?

A. I'm attempting to answer it, sir.

As I said, unless the one glove that you guys have somewhere is this
particular glove, that would be one of the two gloves, other than that
I would say no.

(Indicating to Exhibit 646.)

Q. I will represent to you and the Court, and I'm sure your counsel
will agree, that the one glove that you gave to us was not an Aris
leather light glove.

A. Well, I never gave you a glove.

Q. The one glove you showed us, or whatever, the single glove your
talking about, I will represent to you, that it is not an Aris leather
light glove.

Okay?

A. Okay.

Q. So we can forget about that glove.

A. Okay.

MR. BAKER: There's argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I want to talk about this case.

I would like you to tell us where that glove is?

Where are those two gloves you're wearing on your hands in that
photograph?

A. I've answered that I wouldn't know a leather light glove from
another glove. They all look the same to me. If that one glove is one
of these two gloves, that's one of them. Other than that I wouldn't be
able to tell you where any of the gloves are.

Q. Forget that single glove, okay?

A. Yes.

Q. Tell me where those gloves are?

A. I can only answer it the way --

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered about four times.

MR. PETROCELLI: He keeps bringing up this other glove and it's not the
glove.

THE COURT: Excuse me.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's been so stipulated.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You may answer.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please answer the question.

A. That's the best --

Q. Where are the gloves you're wearing in the photograph?

A. I have no idea.

Q. You have no idea?

A. No.

Q. None?

A. I don't know where any of my gloves are.

Q. Those gloves?

A. Those gloves or any of my gloves.

Q. And you are aware, sir, that gloves matching the description of
those gloves that you are wearing were found; one at Bundy, one at
Rockingham?

A. The brown pair they say were brown gloves, and I've been unable to
find the black gloves either.

Q. You're aware that gloves matching the description of the ones you
are wearing were found; one at Bundy, one at Rockingham?

A. Yes.

Q. Those are the gloves used by the killer, you're aware of that?

A. I'm not aware of that, no.

Q. You're not aware of that?

A. No.

Q. Now, you also are aware that there was a knit cap found at the
Bundy crime scene?

A. Yes.

Q. A dark knit cap?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, you have knit caps just like that one, don't you, sir?

A. I don't know.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can you put the photo up of the knit cap.

(Exhibit 2218 displayed.)

THE REPORTER: What exhibit is that?

MR. FOSTER: Next in order, 2218.

MR. PETROCELLI: 2218.

Little more of a close-up, Steve.

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of a dark knit cap
with the number 66 tag on it was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2218.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That's one of your knit caps?

A. I don't know.

Q. You had knit caps like that in your house that you used for various
purposes including skiing, correct?

A. In the past, when I used to ski, I've had numerous ski outfits, and
I'm sure I've had a blue or a black knit cap before, yes.

Q. You owned that cap, the one depicted in the picture on the TV
screen, as of June 12, 1994, correct?

A. I don't know what knit cap this is.

Q. You owned caps like that as of June 12, 1994, correct?

A. I could have, but I don't know because I haven't been skiing in a
while, so I don't know where -- I wouldn't --

Q. Is it your belief that that cap was acquired by you?

MR. BAKER: Let him finish the answer, please.

A. I wouldn't know. I haven't seen my ski clothes in so long, I
wouldn't know.

Q. So whatever knit caps you had as of June 1, 1994 would be the ones
that were made available to the police when they searched, right?

A. Yes.

Q. If it included that knit cap on the television screen, you wouldn't
dispute that, right?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay.

Now, you recall -- well, withdrawn.

Were you or were you not wearing a dark sweat suit at any time on the
evening of June 12?

A. I was not.

Q. Now, I asked you at your deposition whether you owned any dark
sweat suit in June of 1994, and you said you did not, do you remember
that?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: You have the photo, Steve. Put it up.

(Exhibit 2219 displayed.)

Q. You remember this photo, Mr. Simpson, don't you?

A. No.

Q. It's a dark sweat suit that you're wearing?

A. No, I don't remember the photo.

Q. You remember shooting a video, an exercise video put out by Playboy
in May, late May, 1994?

A. Yes.

Q. May 25, 26, 27?

A. Yes.

Q. A couple weeks before Nicole's death, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's you wearing a dark sweat suit, right?

A. If it is, it's their clothes.

Q. They provided the wardrobe to you, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

THE COURT REPORTER: May I have a number on that, please?

MR. FOSTER: It's similar to the photograph in 770.

MR. PETROCELLI: It's 2219.

(The instrument herein described as a photograph of Mr. Simpson
wearing a black outfit was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2219.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You know the gentleman next to you, right? He
did the video with you?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Why don't you get a close-up on the dark sweatpants.
Back up.

(Indicating to Elmo screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And that was one of the items that you wore in
the shooting of that video, right?

A. Possibly.

Q. You're wearing it, aren't you?

A. Yes.

Can I see that other picture then again.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put it on.

MR. FOSTER: This is 2220.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photo of O.J. Simpson in White
shirt and dark pants was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 2220.)

(Exhibit 2220 displayed.)

THE COURT: Which one is this one?

MR. FOSTER: 2219.

MR. PETROCELLI: 2219 is this picture. The second picture is 2220.

Q. This sweat suit outfit, you can't produce it either?

A. It wasn't mine.

Q. You knew it was -- it was available?

A. To wear during the shoot.

Q. You didn't have to give it back, Mr. Simpson, did you?

A. If I would have asked for it I'm pretty sure he would have given it
to me. But I didn't ask for it.

(Referring to Exhibit 2219.)

Q. There was a wardrobe person assigned for this video?

A. Yes.

Q. She provided to you the wardrobe, right?

A. I don't recall if it was a girl or guy.

Q. Yeah, her name is Leslie Gardner, correct?

A. I don't recall.

Q. And Leslie Gardner would certainly not know whether you kept the
sweat suit or whether you gave it back to her, would she not?

MR. BAKER: I object.

THE WITNESS: I think so.

MR. BAKER: Calls for speculation, sheer speculation on the part of
this witness who he doesn't even know the name --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) That was part of her duties to provide the
wardrobe to you, right?

A. I don't recall her, but they had a wardrobe person, yes.

Q. Whoever the person is?

A. Yes.

Q. You dealt with that person, right?

A. I would assume so.

Q. And they gave you the clothing you wore, correct?

A. They provided it the day that we worked out there for the video.

Q. If it returned you would have given it back to that person?

A. I never returned it because I never took it. I tried it -- I did it
and they did whatever they did with it.

Q. And your testimony is that you never saw it again, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: We have to get the other board.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So you're not able -- you were not able as of
June 12, 1994, to produce any dark sweat suit, correct?

A. I didn't have any.

Q. Not a single one?

A. I didn't have any.

Q. Correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. You saw those Bruno Magli shoes that were discussed in court,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you heard the testimony that those Bruno Magli shoes, size 12,
left the footprint at Bundy, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you wear size 12, right?

A. At times, yeah, among other shoes. Yes, anywhere from 11, 12, 13.

Q. Including size 12?

A. That's right.

Q. Those Reeboks are size 12?

A. I don't know.

Q. The ones you gave to Lange?

A. I don't know. But they probably were.

Q. They probably were?

A. They could have been.

Q. Okay. Now, your deposition was taken in this case in January of
1996, sir?

A. I don't know. I don't recall.

Q. You do recall, though, that your deposition was taken at a time
before the photograph of you wearing those shoes appeared in the
National Enquirer, sometime in March or April, correct?

A. I don't recall that, no.

Q. You wouldn't dispute that if the dates bore that out, right?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And you recall that I asked you if you ever owned the Bruno Magli
shoes, Bruno Magli shoes, size 12, the type that you were shown in
court, as of June 12, 1994?

Do you recall what your answer was?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

You testified that you would --

MR. BAKER: Page and line, please.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) 1305. You testified at your deposition that
you, quote,

MR. BLASIER: Line, please.

MR. GELBLUM: 10.

MR. PETROCELLI: Got it, Mr. Baker?

MR. BLASIER: Not yet.

MR. PETROCELLI: Let me know when you have it.

MR. BAKER: Go ahead.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'll read it.

Page 1305, starting at line 10:

"Q. Did you ever buy shoes that you knew were Bruno Magli shoes?

"A. No.

"Q. How do you know that?

"A. Because I know. If Bruno Magli makes shoes that look like the
shoes that he had in court that are involved in this case, I would
have never owned those ugly-ass shoes.

"Q. You thought those were ugly-ass shoes?

"A. Yes.

"Q. Why were they ugly-ass shoes?

"A. Because in my mind, they were.

"Q. What about them was ugly, Mr. Simpson?

"A. The look of them, the style."

Do you recall giving that testimony?

A. Yes.

And the color of them.

Q. Now, after that deposition testimony, this picture of you appeared
in the National Enquirer, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that is you, Mr. Simpson, is it not?

A. It looks like me.

Q. And you did attend a football game at Rich Stadium in Orchard Park,
New York, on September 26, 1993, correct?

A. I could have, yes.

Q. What do you mean, you could have?

Did you or did you not?

A. I don't know.

Q. Do you remember being there?

A. I don't know the dates, but I certainly attended a lot of games in
Buffalo.

Q. Well, how's this for refreshing your recollection? The last time
that you saw the Bills play the Dolphins at Rich Stadium?

A. I don't recall when that was.

Q. That would have been that game, correct?

A. I went to two or three games, sometimes, a week, so I wouldn't
know.

Q. There's two in a season; there's one at Buffalo, there's one at
Miami. That was the last season before Nicole's death that you did
football games, true?

A. If you say that is that game, I'll accept that. I'm just --.

Q. Thank you.

A. -- telling you, I don't remember what dates what games were played.

Q. Okay.

And you don't remember much about the games, sir?

A. No, not really.

Q. You know who won?

A. I hope Buffalo.

Q. But you don't remember, do you?

A. No.

Q. And your routine was to get there before the game and, you know, do
some pregame interviews and that sort of thing?

A. Yes.

Q. And you recognize what part of the stadium you're walking in there,
sir?

A. It appears to be the end zone.

MR. PETROCELLI: By the way, what exhibit number is this board?

MR. FOSTER: 2211.

MR. PETROCELLI: For the record, we have Exhibit 2211.

(Exhibit 2211 displayed.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, Mr. Simpson you are wearing Bruno Magli
shoes, size 12, in that photograph?

A. That photograph depicts that, but I don't -- I wouldn't -- wasn't
wearing Bruno Magli shoes.

Q. Well, are you saying those are not Bruno Magli shoes?

A. They look like Bruno Magli shoes, yes.

Q. But you're not wearing them; is that what you're saying?

A. I'm -- that's what I'm saying.

Q. How can that be, sir?

A. I don't know.

I saw a picture of Mark Fuhrman and I playing golf together, and I
know I never, ever played golf with him, either.

Q. What does this have to do with Mark Fuhrman?

A. I don't know.

You asked me how can that be. I'm no expert on pictures, but I saw a
picture of Mark Fuhrman and me playing golf, together in a golf cart.

Q. What you're saying to the jury is, that picture is a fraud?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. What do you mean, you believe so. Is it or is it not?

A. I would say it is.

MR. BAKER: I would object. That's argumentative. He indicated he
doesn't have the expertise.

THE COURT: Overruled.

He may state his opinion.

MR. BAKER: That's fine. I have no objection.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) State your opinion. Is it or is it not a fraud?

A. My opinion is that it is a fraud.

Q. Okay.

What part of that picture is fraudulent?

A. I couldn't tell you exactly. But anything that below my -- I have
-- I had a tie sort of like that tie, I know.

As I've told you in a deposition, the coat, I can't really tell. I've
worn all kinds of sports coats. It looks like a nice sports coat. The
collar on the shirt is definitely a collar that I've had shirts that
look like that.

The belt, I can't really tell.

The pants look a little big on me.

And the shoes, I don't know, weren't my shoes.

Q. You're absolutely positive about the shoes?

A. I'm pretty sure.

Q. Pretty sure?

A. Well, I am sure.

Q. There is no doubt in your mind, is there, sir?

A. No, there's not.

Q. There's no doubt?

A. I said no.

Q. None, right?

A. For the third time, no.

Q. And give us your definitive opinion: Are those pants yours or not?
Yes or no?

A. I couldn't tell you. They're gray pants. They look big on whoever
that might be.

Q. Is your answer you can't tell us?

A. I can't tell you.

Q. They could be your gray pants?

A. I own gray pants, and I've owned pants with cuffs, yes.

Q. You have any reason to believe those pants are not yours?

A. Only the shoes lead me to believe that those are not my pants.

Q. Forget the shoes focusing on the pants, are the pants yours?

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know?

A. They look a little big in the legs.

Q. Let's go to the belt.

Is the belt yours?

A. I can't tell.

Q. You don't know?

A. I can't tell.

Q. Is the jacket yours?

A. I mean, I've owned plenty of -- if -- I can't tell from here if
it's a double-breast or single-breast blue or black jacket. I've owned
plenty of them, yes.

Q. Is the jacket yours?

A. I don't know.

Q. You don't know?

A. It looks like it could be my jacket.

Q. You're saying you can't tell if that's your jacket or not?

A. It looks like that's my jacket, yes.

Q. Is that your opinion, that it is your jacket?

A. That would be my opinion, yes.

Q. And the tie?

A. I know I had a tie that looked like that, yes.

Q. And that tie is yours, right?

A. I had a tie like that, so I would say yes.

Q. And the white shirt. Is that your white shirt?

A. By the collar of the shirt, I knew I had shirts that looked like
that, yes.

Q. And the hands and the upper torso, that's all you, right?

A. Yeah. Yes, I would say so.

Q. So it's basically the shoes that you question, right?

A. Yes. The pants somewhat, too.

MR. PETROCELLI: Do we have the video?

Put it on.

We've got to get the other pictures up.

(The instrument herein referred to as a videotape depicting Mr.
Simpson wearing a black jacket was marked for identification as
Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 2221.)

(Plaintiffs' Exhibit 2221 was played in open court.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, there's a --

MR. PETROCELLI: What exhibit number is that?

MR. MEDVENE: Next in order.

THE CLERK: 2221.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that the same jacket, tie, and shirt, Mr.
Simpson?

A. It looks the same, yes.

Q. Okay.

And that's -- you don't have any reason to think that those are not
your items that you're wearing there, is there?

A. From what I could see.

Q. Is that where it ends?

A. Yes. I'm trying to see the colors.

Yeah, that still looks like --

Q. And that's TV footage from the same game, right?

A. I would assume so, yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: One second.

Where are the other pictures, the other Scull pictures?

If you've got the rest of the video, put it on.

(Videotape played in open court.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Same exhibit. This is the same game. Now, stop it
there.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, you see you're wearing these same belt and
gray pants and shirt there, Mr. Simpson?

A. I can't really tell, but they are gray pants, and I can't really
tell what the belt is.

Q. You can make out the tie there, can't you?

A. Yes.

Q. Same tie, same shirt, right?

A. That's right.

Q. You can see that the pants there are gray, can you?

MR. PETROCELLI: You can't blow that up, can you, Steve?

We finally found something you can't do?

A. I would say that the pants were gray pants, yeah.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So, basically everything is there. Is it -- you
can see it there, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Same belt, same pants, same everything, right?

A. No. The coat is obviously a raincoat.

Q. Well, that's a different coat you put on, right?

A. Yes.

Q. So, that change your mind a little bit on the pants, make you sure
that those pants were genuine?

A. No.

Q. That the -- that the pants you're wearing here are the same pants
depicted here?

A. No, that didn't change my mind.

Q. Doesn't change your mind, seeing it on the video?

A. No. I'm sure I wore gray pants that day because I normally wear
gray pants.

Q. Do you think the video is a fraud too?

A. Not at all.

Q. Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Put that picture on.

What exhibit number is this, Steve?

MR. FOSTER: 1918..

MR. GELBLUM: 1918.

MR. PETROCELLI: 1918.

(Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1918 displayed on the TV screen.)

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) And that's a picture of you interviewing Keith
Byers?

A. It appears to be, yes.

Q. Who was then on the Miami Dolphins?

A. That's correct.

Q. And again, that's before game time, right?

A. I don't know. Could have been after.

Q. And there you're wearing the same outfit depicted in the picture of
you walking through the end zone, right?

A. From the waist up, yes.

Q. The same tie, shirt, and jacket?

A. Appears to be, yes.

Q. Now, is it your opinion that picture's a fraud?

A. Well --

Q. Yes or no?

A. I would say no.

Q. Not a fraud?

A. Yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Now, you got the next one.

(The instrument herein referred to as Photograph of Mr. Simpson
standing by himself was marked for identification as Plaintiffs'
Exhibit No. 1916.)

(Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1916 displayed on the TV screen.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Next exhibit is Exhibit 1916.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you recognize that photograph, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And that's a photograph of you doing a shot, again, before the
game?

A. Yes.

Q. Later on, it got cold and little rainy, and you put on the
raincoat, right?

A. Well it rained before and after and during, so I had it on; I took
it off; I had it on; I took it off.

Q. Now, the jacket, the tie, the shirt, and the pants, they are the
same as the ones in the photograph of you walking in the end zone,
right?

A. That's correct.

MR. PETROCELLI: And is this 1916, Steve?

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is it your opinion that that photograph, 1916,
is a fraud?

A. Not my opinion, no.

Q. It's January, right?

A. I would assume so, yes.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay. You can take it off.

Q. You're not able to produce those shoes in court that you're wearing
in that photograph, are you?

MR. BAKER: Object, Your Honor. That is depicted in the photograph;
you'll go over that.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You can answer.

You cannot bring to this courtroom the shoes depicted in that
photograph?

A. The shoes depicted in this photograph, no.

Q. And by the way, you still think those shoes are ugly-ass shoes that
you're wearing there?

A. Not as ugly as the ones in the courtroom.

I don't think those are attractive shoes, no.

MR. PETROCELLI: Okay.

You can take it -- take the board in, too, Steve.

(Exhibit board is removed.)

MR. PETROCELLI: I've got one area left. Like to take a short break
before, Your Honor?

THE COURT: Right now?

MR. PETROCELLI: Yeah, if that would be okay.

THE COURT: All right. Ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)

(The Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. PETROCELLI: Thank you very much, Your Honor.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) I'd like to turn to June 17, Mr. Simpson,
Friday.

A. Yes.

Q. You were staying at the Kardashians' house since you left
Rockingham -- excuse me -- Tuesday morning, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had, over at the Kardashians' house, your black grip,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And during the week, that grip was in the bedroom in which you
slept, right?

A. Well, it was in a closet, yes.

Q. And there were times during that week when you put items in that
bag, true?

A. I don't believe so, no.

Q. For example, on Friday, you put a passport in that bag, correct?

A. That's incorrect. That's incorrect.

Q. There was a passport on the bedside table, not in the bag, a
passport belonging to you, at one point during that week, correct?

A. I saw that testimony, but that was incorrect.

Q. You saw what testimony?

A. Paula Barbieri.

Q. So you remember her testimony?

A. I was there. Yes.

Q. And she testified that your passport was on the bedside table,
right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you say that she is wrong, right?

A. Yes.

THE COURT: Mr. Simpson, would you pull that microphone a little bit to
you; your voice drops off at times.

Thank you.

THE WITNESS: Thank you.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) In the shooting of that Playboy video in very
late May, you acquired a fake disguise kit, correct?

A. I bought a -- a little goatee and a moustache.

Q. And when you say you bought it, you called Cathy Randa, your
assistant, and asked her to go pick one up at this Cinema Secrets
Beauty Supply Shop that the video makeup person told you about,
correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And the video -- excuse me -- the disguise kit was delivered to
your house at Rockingham, correct?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And it was put on your desk in your office at Rockingham, correct?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And it was there on your desk at Rockingham as late as Friday, June
10, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Your story is, you put it in your bag earlier, right?

MR. BAKER: Object to the question; argumentative.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Is that your testimony, sir; you put it in your
bag sometime earlier, right?

A. It was put in my bag almost when -- whenever it first arrived at my
house.

Q. So your testimony, sir, is that the disguise was put in your bag by
what, May 28, May 29?

A. Whenever it came to my house, I put all the mail -- I tend to put
my mail in my bag and take it back to the office at times, and this is
what happened then.

Q. And since around May 28, May 29, it's your testimony that the
disguise kit was in your black grip and it remained there through June
17, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Never once taken out, correct?

A. I never took it out, no.

Unless Vannatter took it out. I didn't take it out.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike, Your Honor, "unless Vannatter took it
out."

MR. BAKER: I think that's responsive. He asked if anybody ever took it
out.

THE COURT: Stricken.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) So it's your testimony, then, from the -- let's
say June 1 through June 12, 1994, at no time was that disguise kit on
your desk in your office in your house, true?

A. I'm sorry. Until? I'm sorry. Would you repeat that?

Q. I would.

Between June 1 and June 12, 1994, at no time was that disguise kit on
your desk in your office in your home, correct?

A. From the time -- and I don't know if it was June 1 or May 2 -- from
the time it went into my bag, which was well before the weekend of the
12th, it went into my bag, and from that point on, it didn't come out
of my bag except briefly, when Vannatter gave us my bag back.

Q. It was in the bag, then, as of June 5, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And not in your office, correct?

A. When I say June 5, I said whatever time it went into the bag.

Q. Which date?

A. I don't know exactly.

Q. Which, June 10?

A. I wouldn't know. I just know on the weekend of June 12, it was in
the bag. Whenever it went in, from whenever I got it, it went into the
bag and it stayed in the bag.

Q. It was delivered on May 27.

A. So at some time after that, it went into the bag.

Q. How long after that?

A. Whenever I was taking mail to the office.

Q. Did you have it in your -- did you put it in your bag at any time
on Friday. June 10?

A. No.

Q. So it was in your bag as of June 9, then, right?

A. Certainly as of June 9, yes.

Q. And probably a lot sooner, a lot earlier than that?

A. I would say so, yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, when you left the Kardashian house -- excuse me.

When you left your house to go to the Kardashian house, you took about
eight or nine thousand dollars in cash with you, right?

A. I possibly had about that much with me, yes.

Q. That money was in your bedroom, underneath some sweaters, right?

A. Maybe. When I came back from New York on Friday, I had about eight
or nine thousand, I don't know. I had some checks and some cash, at
least $7,000 in cash.

When I went to Chicago, I only took three or four, and I put four or
five underneath my sweater.

Q. And when you came back from Chicago, after the police had searched
your house, the money was still there, right?

A. We walked into the closet with Lange and with Skip, and Bob
Kardashian. I raised up my sweater and said, "Boy, I'm surprised your
guys didn't take the money."

Q. They did not take your money?

A. No.

Q. They did not steal your money?

A. They did not.

Q. The police did not?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you had that money with you when you were at the Kardashian
house, and you had it in your possession on the morning of June 17,
right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you had your passport with you that morning, as well, right?

A. I keep it in my bag, yes.

Q. You had that disguise kit, right?

A. It was, I assume, in the bag.

Q. You also had a key to Nicole's condominium, correct?

A. I'm not aware of that, no.

Q. You were aware that there was a Smokey the Bear key?

MR. BAKER: Well, I'm going to object.

Q. Excuse me. Withdrawn.

You aware there was a key on a Smokey the Bear key ring found in your
black grip, correct?

A. I'm not really aware of that no.

Q. You're not aware of that?

A. I don't know, when you say Smokey the Bear from --

Q. You know, a little Smokey the Bear ring that had a key attached to
it?

A. I know there was were numerous keys in my bag, yes.

Q. Are you aware there was one such key that was attached to a Smokey
the Bear key ring?

A. I can't say that I do know about it. I can't say that I know about
a Smokey the Bear key ring.

Q. You didn't know you had it?

A. I knew I had key rings in there; I just don't recall any Smokey the
Bear.

Q. Isn't it true that you had a key to Nicole's condominium in your
possession on June 17?

A. That's inaccurate.

That is not true.

Q. Now, after you were informed that the police were coming to arrest
you on the 17th, you decided to take off, true?

A. At one point, yes.

Q. You knew the police were coming to arrest you for the murders of
Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. You knew that you were going to jail?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you decided rather than submit to the arrest, that you would
flee, right?

A. I would go to Nicole's grave, yes.

Q. You decided to leave, right?

A. I decided to go to Nicole's grave site.

Q. You decided to leave the Kardashian house without informing the
authorities, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you left sometime around noontime, right?

A. I really don't know.

Q. And you left with your friend, boyhood friend, Al Cowlings?

A. Yes.

Q. And you had with you, your black grip, right?

A. Yes.

Q. In other words, you say you were going to Nicole's grave, right?

A. Yes.

Q. But you took your black grip with you, right?

A. It was the only way I could carry the pictures that I put in there.

Q. Well, you could have just taken the pictures, right?

A. I guess I could have.

But I also had a gun.

Q. And -- but you took the grip that had a lot of other stuff in it,
right?

A. Yeah. I'm sure there was other stuff in there, yes.

Q. And it had the disguise in there, right?

A. It had the little goatee and mustache in there, yes.

Q. And it had the passport, and you had the money between Al Cowlings
and you, right?

A. No. I had maybe $2 on me.

Q. You gave Cowlings the money, right?

A. I gave him the money earlier that day, yes.

Q. So he had it, right?

A. I assume so. I don't know. I gave him the cash and told him to give
it to my older kids.

Q. Now, before you left the house, when you knew the police were
coming and you wrote out a letter, right?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And you gave that letter to Bob Kardashian and said "you'll know
when to read it," right, or words to that effect?

A. I think I gave it to AC, and maybe he gave it to Bob Kardashian.

Q. And your state of mind in writing that letter was that you were
contemplating killing yourself, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the reason you were contemplating killing yourself is because
you were distraught that the media were attacking you, right?

A. I was in a lot of pain; that's why -- that may have been a part of
it, the media.

Q. The media part of it was that they were saying things about you
that you felt were untrue, correct?

A. I knew were untrue.

Q. And you remember, in the deposition, I asked you to tell me all the
things they were saying about you that were untrue; do you recall
that?

A. Yes.

Q. And your testimony was that the only thing you could remember that
whole week was a story by a reporter named Jim Avila, that you were
loud and boisterous when you got to Chicago on the morning of the
13th?

A. That was the first story I heard. And it got worse as the week went
on.

Q. That was really the only thing you were able to tell me at the
deposition?

A. It was the only thing I recall. All you have to do is look at tapes
of the media that week.

Q. The only thing you could recall when you -- when you gave testimony
in your deposition, right?

A. That was the first thing after -- before the weeks, so...

Q. This particular report really bothered you, accusing you of being
loud and boisterous when you got to Chicago, as though you were
putting on some kind of act, right?

A. I don't know. It was just what was happening, the pain I was
feeling.

I couldn't understand why he would lie like that.

Q. And one of the reasons that it hurt you so much is because your
image means everything to you, correct, Mr. Simpson?

A. That's not even close.

Q. And in your autobiography, Education of a Rookie, do you remember
what the name of the chapter -- do you remember what the name of the
first chapter, chapter 1 of your book is? Do you remember the name --

A. No.

Q. -- of it?

A. No.

Q. Well, if I were to tell you that the name of that chapter was "A
Question of Image" --

A. Well --

Q. -- would that refresh your recollection?

A. No, it wouldn't.

And I didn't write any of the chapter titles.

Q. Well, you're not disavowing that book now, are you, sir?

A. Never have, no.

Q. And you never will, right?

A. No.

Q. Now, a good part of your letter that you wrote, the so-called
suicide letter, had to do with sort of defending your good name and
reputation and image, correct?

A. I don't know. I don't know how you would characterize it.

Q. There isn't a single word in all those pages, for example,
expressing any sorrow about Nicole's death, true?

A. I think I started off by saying that I did not commit those crimes.

Q. But there isn't a single word in those pages that you wrote,
contemplating killing yourself, in which you express sorrow over
Nicole's death; is that true?

A. I think the whole act of what --

Q. Is that true?

A. -- of what I was doing was because of that.

Q. Is that true, sir?

A. Because -- is what, sir?

Q. There's not a single word in that document expressing sorrow for
Nicole's death?

A. Probably not, no.

But I feel the whole letter went to my sorrow.

Q. Your sorrow?

A. Yes.

Q. Yeah.

Now, there were a bunch of other items in Al Cowlings' car, by the
way, like items of your clothing, right?

A. I don't know about that, no.

Q. In the back of the car?

A. I'm not aware of that.

Q. A windbreaker, socks, underwear, shirts --

A. I'm not aware of that, no.

Q. Okay.

And you had a gun, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And then you started to become -- your infamous ride in the Bronco
with Mr. Cowlings, correct?

MR. BAKER: I object to the characterization. It's argumentative.

THE COURT: I'll sustain it.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You took off in the Bronco, Cowlings' Bronco,
right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you ended up returning to Rockingham some eight or nine hours
later, right?

A. I really was kind of lost time, so I don't know how long it was.

Q. And there was a time near the end there, near the end there, sir,
when you were on the phone quite a bit with Detective Tom Lange,
correct?

A. I don't know.

Q. Do -- you don't you recall Mr. Lange calling you while you were on
the cell phone and you spoke to him?

A. I remember -- I didn't know Mr. Lange from anyone else, and I do
remember somebody from the police talking to me at the time.

Q. Do you recall Detective Tom Lange urging you, begging you not to
harm yourself, sir, with the gun?

A. I believe that was what whoever I was talking to was trying to tell
me.

Q. Do you recall Detective Tom Lange trying to convince you to just
put the gun down and come on home?

Do you remember all that?

MR. BAKER: I object to relevance, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Do you remember that, sir?

A. I believe whoever I was talking to, that was the substance of what
they were saying.

Q. And remember, you're saying the following:

"Just tell them all I'm sorry. You can tell them later on today and
tomorrow that I was sorry and that I'm sorry that I did this to the
police department."

Do you remember saying that?

A. And I also remember telling them --

Q. Yes or no?

A. -- I didn't do it.

Q. Do you remember saying that?

A. No, I don't remember that, no. But I probably did.

Q. Excuse me. Just answer the questions; we'll get through this.

A. Oh.

Yes.

Q. Do you remember saying the following to Tom Lange:

"Hey, you've been a good guy too, man, Lange. Thanks. You let me tell
you, I know you're doing your job. You've been honest with me right
from the beginning. Mr. Lange, I appreciate that."

And you said -- just saying, you're doing your job; I know you're
doing a good job.

Do you remember saying that to Detective Lange?

A. I don't recall it, but that would be something that I would say.

Q. And do you recall Detective Lange saying to you, "And nobody's
going to get hurt."

And you replied, "I'm the only one that deserves it." Do you recall
saying that, sir?

A. Not at all.

Q. You deny saying that?

A. I don't recall saying that at all.

Q. If it's on a tape, you wouldn't dispute it, would you?

A. Let me hear the tape.

Q. And you recall telling Mr. Lange near the end, you've been a good
guy, man, you really have. I know you're just doing your job, like you
told me. You're a good guy. You did your job well.

MR. BAKER: I object to the relevance of this.

Q. MR. PETROCELLI: Now, do you recall saying that?

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I don't recall saying it, but I think that's the way I was feeling
towards the police at the time, yes.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Now, Mr. Simpson, at no time did you tell
Detective Lange on the phone, "Why are you framing me?"

You never said that, did you?

A. At that point?

Q. Yes or no.

A. I didn't know what they were doing.

I know I told them I didn't do it on numerous occasions on that ride.

Q. At no time did you say, why have you planted all this evidence
against me?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor --

A. I had no idea what the evidence was.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You said none of those things to Detective
Lange, did you?

A. I had no idea what the evidence was.

Q. You knew there was blood; you knew there was -- there were gloves;
you knew those things, right?

A. No.

Q. You knew there was blood found on your property, and you knew there
was blood found in your car, and you knew there was blood found on
Bundy as of June 17, when they were going to arrest you, right?

A. I knew there was blood, yes.

Q. And at no time did you ever utter a word to Detective Lange, why
aren't you out looking for the real killer? Why didn't you -- why did
you plant all this evidence against me?

MR. BAKER: This is argument.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Why did you frame me?

You never said any of those things to Detective Lange, true?

MR. BAKER: Objection; compound, argumentative.

THE COURT: It is compound, argumentative. Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) You never accused Detective Lange of being
framed by the police department, true?

A. I had no idea who Detective Lange was and I didn't know what had
taken place at all.

Q. You never accused whoever you spoke to on the phone of framing you?

A. All I --

Q. True or untrue?

A. All I can do is say -- and I told him time and time again, I didn't
do this.

MR. PETROCELLI: Move to strike as nonresponsive.

THE COURT: Stricken as nonresponsive.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Please.

And the question -- you never accused the person on the telephone from
the police department when you were talking of planting evidence
against you, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Or framing you for a murder that you did not commit? Correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And the reason you didn't do so, Mr. Simpson, is because you knew
you committed those murders, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And that is why you were going to kill yourself, because you knew
you were going to spend the rest of your life in jail, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And you knew that you dropped the blood at Bundy, correct?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. And knew, sir, that you went there that night and you confronted
Nicole and you killed her --

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm going to object.

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) -- correct?

MR. BAKER: This has been asked and a speech is already --

Q. (BY MR. PETROCELLI) Correct?

MR. BAKER: It's already been asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

You may answer.

A. No, Mr. Petrocelli. That's totally, absolutely incorrect.

Q. And Ronald Goldman came upon you when you were there with Nicole,
and you did not expect him that night, correct?

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object.

A. I don't know Ron Goldman.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. And Ronald Goldman got into a fight with you as he tried to stop
you, and you cut him and you slashed him until he died, collapsed in
your arms. True or untrue?

A. Untrue.

Q. And you left him there to die, Mr. Simpson, with his eyes open,
looking right at you. True or untrue?

A. That's untrue.

MR. PETROCELLI: I have no further questions.

THE COURT: You may begin.

MR. BAKER: We can start anytime you like. If you want me to start now
--

MR. BREWER: Your Honor, we have some questions.

We'd like to approach.

MR. BAKER: I'm going object to that. We've been through --

MR. BREWER: We can deal with this at side bar. We have questions. We
would like to start tomorrow, get our service tech back.

I'd like to have a hearing on that, go till 4:30.

THE COURT: Approach the bench.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)

THE COURT: What is the scope of your examination?

MR. BREWER: Well, the scope of the examination is to cover at least
the areas that Mr. Petrocelli had covered, but --

THE COURT: I'm not going to let's you go over the same area --

MR. BREWER: I'm not going to go over the same area.

THE COURT: -- covered, because as far as I can tell, there are only
two sides on this particular issue.

And I indicated to you at the beginning of the trial, that I was not
going to abide by three attorneys asking the same questions over, over
and over three times.

MR. BREWER: That is not our intention. And you know we are a party, so
we have an absolute right under 776.

THE COURT: As far as I'm concerned you're an aside.

MR. BREWER: That's not what the statute says.

THE COURT: I'm going to treat you as an aside.

MR. BREWER: So you are denying us a right under 776 to cross-examine
him?

THE COURT: You may cross-examine him. I'm not going to permit you to
go over the same thing, over and over, because --

MR. BREWER: It's not my intention.

First of all, Judge, I don't have a lot of questions. It's really not
my intention to sit here and go over things that Mr. Petrocelli has
already covered. There are certain areas that were not covered.

THE COURT: Name one.

MR. BREWER: For example, the flight back from Chicago. There is
testimony from Mr. Simpson relative to how many times he used the
restroom, over what period of time, whether he slept, whether he
didn't sleep.

I'd like to develop that there is testimony relative to his emotional
response when he received the news that his wife had been killed in
Chicago.

THE COURT: That was asked and answered.

MR. BREWER: No it was not.

THE COURT: Yes, it was.

MR. BREWER: No, it was not.

THE COURT: I ruled it was.

MR. BREWER: I can tell that when he was told, when his wife was
murdered -- In other words, his ex-wife was murdered. He was pissed
that would be his testimony.

We don't think that's consistent with someone told that their wife is
dead, that they would be pissed off or angry when they hear that news.
That was not answered specifically.

The other would be, there would be testimony relative to discussions
he had with Paula Barbieri while he was in jail concerning the
messages that had been the subject of Mr. Petrocelli's
cross-examination. There will be another area.

And then I would intend also to compile a list of witnesses that Mr.
Simpson claims provides false testimony against him in connection with
the case and have that list presented.

THE COURT: Excuse me. Say that again.

MR. BREWER: I intend to have Mr. Simpson identify every single person
who's testified in this case who has lied or has put on false
testimony and create a demonstrative exhibit to illustrate the number
and the scope of people that he claims that are lying against him in
connection with this case.

MR. BAKER: That's argument.

THE COURT: What is the relevance of that?

MR. BREWER: The relevance of that is to illustrate Mr. Simpson --
putting him against virtually every witness.

THE COURT: I'm not going to permit that.

MR. BREWER: That would be the other area.

THE COURT: So far, you've told me only one area that I would permit.

MR. BREWER: What areas?

THE COURT: Two areas. The flight on the airplane and the testimony
with regards to Barbieri. That's all.

MR. BREWER: How about the area where -- in response to how he reacted?

THE COURT: I already ruled on that.

Okay. Mr. Kelly.

MR. KELLY: Your Honor, I had an area I was going to pick up on from
Mr. Petrocelli, which was Mr. Simpson's subsequent actions after he
left Rockingham the first time on New Year's morning, 1989.

Other than that, I was not going to go into other areas.

MR. BAKER: They went into that area almost a whole half-day.

MR. KELLY: I understand that where we left off was in Michelle's room.
I was going it pick up there on some subsequent actions; that's it.
That's the only area.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. BREWER: There are two other areas I didn't mention.

On the suicide note, there are other statements that I would --

He mentioned in opening statement that I would like to address to Mr.
Simpson. One is his reference to himself as a battered
husband/boyfriend. There's another in the suicide note where he refers
to himself as this "lost person," and there's reference, to the real
O.J.

THE COURT: Real what?

MR. BREWER: The real O.J. He says that in the suicide note. Those are
all things that I mentioned in the opening statement that I would like
to elicit from him, the statements he made in connection with the
suicide note.

THE COURT: I'll permit that.

MR. BREWER: And there is one other area that is -- it is something Mr.
Petrocelli covered, but he didn't cover a couple things in connection
with that.

That is, in the Bronco, if you recall, he addressed the areas of the
interior of the vehicle where there was blood that was consistent with
someone who was bleeding from their joint -- the back side of the
joint. And what I would like to do is also establish that that's
consistent with somebody turning on the headlights, flipping it on at
night.

THE COURT: No.

MR. BREWER: No?

THE COURT: You may not go into that.

MR. KELLY: Judge, with regard to the '89 incident, when we pick up
Michelle's room, you're going right now.

MR. BREWER: What's that?

MR. KELLY: I was going to play that ten-second portion of the tape,
also.

THE COURT: What ten-second portion?

MR. KELLY: Of the 911 tape, that it's from Michelle's room, that was
not played. And I was going to pick up from there. After that is all
the subsequent action, when Mr. Simpson arrives in Michelle's room.
That's where I was going to pick up a little bit. That's the only area
I'll be covering.

THE COURT: What are you talking about?

What are you talking about?

MR. KELLY: When Mr. Simpson arrives in the housekeeper's room where
Nicole is, okay. Where he comes outside, he comes into the
housekeeper's room; Nicole is on the phone with the police, making the
911 call at that point. The call is made from there. And I was going
to play the first ten seconds of that tape and take it from there
forward.

THE COURT: Take it from there forward?

MR. KELLY: Yes, to some of the subsequent acts when he left the
property and they all --

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. KELLY: Okay. That's all.

(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury.)

MR. BREWER: Okay, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. BREWER: Thank you.

CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BREWER:

Q. Mr. Simpson, when you left Los Angeles and headed back to Chicago
on the airplane, that was about a four- or five-hour flight; is that
correct?

THE COURT: Just a minute. I have a note here. I've got to take care of
this.

Okay. We're going to adjourn until 8:30 tomorrow morning.

Don't talk about the case, ladies and gentlemen. Don't form or express
any opinions.

Counsel remain, please.

(Jurors exit the courtroom.)

(The notes of the proceedings at this point were ordered sealed by the
Court, not to be opened, transcribed, or destroyed except upon order
of a Judge of the Superior Court.)

(The following proceedings were held in chambers, outside the presence
of the jury.)

THE COURT: The Court is excusing a juror for the reason that she is
unable to conduct herself properly as a juror, and has twice made
efforts to make some contact with participants in the trial, attorneys
in one instance, an employee of the attorneys in the second instance,
and the Court feels that in the interest of justice and fairness, that
it's important that the jurors be kept separate and apart from the
participants of the trial. And for this reason, the Court excused the
juror.

Tomorrow morning, we will draw by lot, a juror to fill that spot.
Okay.

Thank you.

MR. BAKER: Thank you.

MR. BREWER: Your Honor, just one more matter that -- I assume that
part of the record is sealed.

THE COURT: That's sealed, except for the excusing part, that last part
of excusing her for her conduct. The court released that portion of
the record where I excused the juror and the reasons for her excusal,
that's part of the record; that will be part of the minute order.
Okay.

MR. BREWER: Your Honor, we had a side bar, wherein Mr. Baker had
voiced an objection concerning other counsel questioning Mr. Simpson.

On cross, under 776 -- and I just want to bring to the Court's
attention the case McCarthy versus Mobile Cranes Inc. 199 Cal.App.2d
500 that deals with independent actions that have been consolidated
for trial when you have an adverse party testifying and the right of
each party's attorneys' right to cross-examine that witness.

I would also request that the Court allow us the opportunity to review
my notes this evening because there may be other areas that I would
like to explore assuming they haven't already been covered by Mr.
Petrocelli or the order that you made confining the areas of inquiry,
at least with respect to my examination. I would like to not be
prejudiced tomorrow if I come in, after reviewing today's testimony,
find other areas that I had opportunity to be heard relative to those
areas in.

THE COURT: Quite opposite. We set the ground rules. The ground rule
was, you agreed to it, that you would be -- wouldn't be going over the
same material that each attorney examines on.

MR. BREWER: And I do agree with that, Judge.

The only points I made in side bar are, there are areas that are not
necessarily the same areas, but may have information that wasn't fully
developed that I would like to develop.

So I agree. It's not my intention nor my desire to go over the same
testimony that was elicited quite effectively by Mr. Petrocelli;
simply, there are areas that I feel I wanted to develop in a different
way and in a different manner, I think need further development. And
that was the point that I was making and the reason why I wanted to
revisit a couple areas.

THE COURT: I'm not in the habit of going back on my rulings.

MR. BREWER: I know.

THE COURT: I'm going to stand by them. If there's any particular area
that you can point to, you certainly have the opportunity to do that.

MR. BREWER: Okay.

THE COURT: You made an agreement; I'm going to stick you right with
your word, okay?

MR. BREWER: Okay.

MR. BAKER: One other thing: If I put Mr. Simpson on, if I go into half
the subjects, bring you back -- bring him back for the other half, is
that appropriate?

THE COURT: On your --

MR. BAKER: Yeah.

MR. PETROCELLI: Can we talk briefly?

We don't have to be on the record, Your Honor, Judge.

(At 4:50 p.m., an adjournment was taken until Tuesday, November 26,
1996, at 8:30 A.M.)


</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American
Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be
reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is
intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-10</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B008-330</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/nov/nov26.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054144 text/html 45716
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:51:20 GMT
Last-modified: Wednesday, 27-Nov-96 16:42:18 GMT
Content-length: 45521
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (11/26/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
NOVEMBER 26, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1996
8:52 A.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

THE COURT: Why don't you have Mr. Simpson sit at counsel table for a minute.

MR. BAKER: I'm sorry. Fine. We told him to get up there.

(Mr. Simpson resumes seat at counsel table from witness stand.)

THE COURT: Morning, ladies and gentlemen.

JURORS: Morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT: You notice that one of your number is missing. That juror has been
excused.

Ordinarily, we don't discuss why a juror has been excused. However, in this
instance, I must inform you that the juror has been excused because the juror
has conducted herself in a manner that is inappropriate for a juror sitting on
a case.

The conduct that is inappropriate is that which is one that consists of
communicating, or attempting to communicate with persons connected with this
case, whether they're attorneys, employees of attorneys, or media, or anybody.
That is inappropriate.

You are jurors. You are sworn to hear the evidence and to decide this case only
on the basis of the evidence in the case and the law that is given in the case.

You're forbidden to have any contact with, or any communication with anybody
connected with this case, except through the trial process and through the
Court.

The attorneys can talk to you, only while they are addressing you in opening
and closing argument.

The witnesses cannot talk to you at all, except by way of their testimony.

Employees of attorneys, they cannot talk to you at all. And it would be totally
inappropriate for you to make any effort to communicate with them, as well.

Now, do all of you jurors understand that?

JURORS: Yes.

THE COURT: A jury is not a social club. A jury is the fulfillment of a legal
obligation, and it is your duty to fulfill that obligation by being impartial
and being careful listeners of the evidence, and to decide this case based upon
the evidence and the law as you receive it from this Court, and not from any
other source.

Now, when I say that is your duty, there is another duty; and that is the duty
to conduct yourselves in a way that there is no appearance of impropriety.

If the kind of conduct that I am concerned with continues, it would lead to an
appearance of impropriety, because it would be seen that the juror may be
having inappropriate, although most likely innocent, contact with one side or
the other, or the media.

You see, if the other side perceives such a contact, or the public sees such a
contact, it is entirely likely that the public, in general, will lose
confidence in the judicial process and would taint the integrity of having a
trial. So it is very important that all jurors maintain themselves and comport
themselves in such a way that they do not cause a perception of inappropriate
conduct. And in this instance, that is conduct that would look like you're
trying to contact somebody connected with the case.

Everybody understand that?

JURORS: Yes.

THE COURT: Now, if anybody tries to contact you, as I've informed you before,
let the Court know. That is totally appropriate.

I've always admonished you, and periodically admonished you not to listen to
radio reports, watch television broadcasts, or read newspaper articles or news
articles concerning this trial.

That is doubly so in this instance, because these things become news items and
the media goes out there and just plays it for all it's worth.

And it's very important that you do not allow yourselves to be influenced by
that. And the way we hope to insulate you from that is by ordering you not to
do that.

The only alternative is to sequester you and put you in custody, so to speak.
And I don't think that's appropriate in a civil case. And you've all sworn that
you would comport yourselves in such a way that you would not allow that kind
of exposure to -- information. I trust that you still maintain, believe that
you will be able to keep yourselves from being tainted by outside information
on this case. Is that correct?

JURORS: Yes.

THE COURT: All right.

Now, at this time, the clerk is instructed to place the names of the alternates
in the gray box. And we will draw an alternate to fill jury seat number 4.

(The clerk complies.)

THE CLERK: Number 294. You're Juror number 8 now.

THE COURT: Juror number 294, would you take seat number 4.

Okay. Juror number 294, you are now part of the regular jury panel.

At this time, we will resume.

Mr. Simpson, would you resume the stand, please.

THE WITNESS: Yes, sir.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'd like to read into the record and move to into
evidence, the exhibits I referred to in my examination.

They're all by reference to the joint trial statement.

Exhibits 783, 13, 15, 14, 813, 1161, 735, 811, 17, 812, 2216, 195, 2217, 760,
761, 434, 782, 228, 225, 2218, 2219, 2220, and 2221.

Thank you.

MR. BAKER: I just reserve again, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Yes.

(The instruments previously marked as Plaintiffs' Exhibits 783, 13, 15, 14,
813, 1161, 735, 811, 17, 812, 2216, 195, 2217, 760, 761, 434, 782, 228, 225,
2218, 2219, 2220, and 2221, were received in evidence.)

THE CLERK: You are still under oath.

Would you please state your name again for the record.

THE WITNESS: Orenthal James Simpson.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, the witness on the stand at the time of the adjournment
of Monday, November 25, 1996, having been previously duly sworn, was examined
further as follows:

THE COURT: Mr. Simpson, would you draw the microphone a little bit closer to
you; you don't have to breathe into it; but just bring it closer to you.

Thank you.

FURTHER DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. BREWER:

Q. Morning.

Morning, ladies and gentlemen.

JURORS: Morning.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Mr. Simpson, you left Los Angeles and got on a flight headed
back to Chicago on the evening of June 12, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And during that flight, you were in first class, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And the seat that you were in, there wasn't anyone seated in the seat next
to you, true?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. Yes.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Okay.

And during the course of that flight, Mr. Simpson, once it took off and was in
the air, you didn't speak to anyone else on that flight, true?

A. Not true.

Q. Okay.

Who did you speak with?

A. What do you mean, during the flight?

Q. Yeah. When you took off and you were in the air, you indicated that you
spoke with someone. Who did you speak with?

A. The captain.

Q. Other than the captain, did you speak with anyone else?

A. Maybe a stewardess.

Q. Okay.

Other than personnel that worked on the plane, you didn't speak with anyone
else, true?

A. True.

Q. And during that flight, there was a partner of a good friend of yours that
was seated in first class with you, true?

A. Correct.

Q. Now, once the plane took off, the overhead lights in the first class cabin
went off, true?

A. We were possibly in the air 40 minutes or an hour and they went off.

Q. They were dark during the entire flight until you came close to landing,
beginning your descent; is that also true, sir?

A. That's true.

Q. You had had a very active day. You played golf, true?

A. True.

Q. You woke up early in the morning, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And just before leaving, you were laying on your bed, fighting the urge to
go to sleep, because you wanted to, obviously, sleep on the plane, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. And while you were on this plane, headed back to Chicago at night, you
didn't sleep at all, did you?

A. I think I dozed a little bit from time to time, 'cause I was reading, and I
put the book down and dozed. I'd read, put the book down, and dozed or gone to
the restroom or something.

Q. You don't recall sleeping for an extended period of time, an hour, two,
three hours on this flight, true?

A. Certainly not three hours.

You know, it's hard to tell -- when you're flying, it's hard to tell. I may
have dozed off for an hour at one point. It's just hard to tell.

Q. At no time during this flight did you ever contact Kato Kaelin to find out
whether he had found out any further information concerning the noises he heard
that evening, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And at no time during that flight did you ever contact your daughter,
Arnelle, who lived with you, to find out whether she knew anything about the
noises, true?

A. I wasn't concerned about it; that's true.

Q. You were not concerned about your daughter's safety?

A. No, I was not concerned about what Kato claimed he heard.

Q. And the answer to my question is, you did not contact Arnelle at any time
during that flight, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. You didn't contact Westec during that flight to have them come over and
investigate any of those noises, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And you did not contact the police department, as well, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And during the course of that flight, Mr. Simpson, you used the restroom on
at least five occasions, true?

A. I doubt it, but three or four, for sure.

Q. You're not certain you didn't use it on at least five occasions?

A. I would say three or four times.

I tend to, you know, I tend to drink a lot of water on flights -- it's
something that I state in my video -- and consequently, go to the bathroom.

Q. How would I know, Mr. Simpson?

A. I'm sure you interviewed -- I mean, I'm sure you looked at the testimony of
other -- of the video that I did for Playboy, where I state that in the video.

Q. So we're to accept what you say in a video as gospel truth in this
courtroom?

MR. BAKER: I object. That's argument.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Mr. Simpson, when you went into the restroom during the
flight back to Chicago, when you closed the door, lights go on; is that
correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Very small, confined area?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And you would have had at least four occasions in that restroom to make
observations relative to any cuts on your hand, wouldn't you?

A. Possibly.

Q. I mean, small, confined area, brightly lit, true?

A. Yeah.

When I said possibly, still, it's -- possibly it was four times. But I would
have assumed if I saw any cuts or anything, I would have -- may have noticed
it.

Q. Okay.

And on any of those occasions, you never observed any cuts on any portion of
your hand, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Left or right, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. So there was absolutely no question in your mind when you got to Chicago
that you didn't have any cuts on your left middle finger; is that true?

A. Well, it was not anything I had on my mind when I got to Chicago.

Q. You didn't see anything on the plane that led you to believe that you had a
cut on your left middle finger; is that what you're saying?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

So you were absolutely certain when you were in Chicago, that the cut that you
received in connection with that glass was the first cut to that left middle
finger; that true?

A. For the most part, yes.

Q. That was the information you had on June 13, when you spoke with Detectives
Lange and Vannatter true?

A. That's correct.

Q. It was on that occasion that you told them that you cut it the night before.

MR. BAKER: Object. This has all been asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Now, Mr. Simpson, in connection with Paula Barbieri, you had
mentioned on Friday and on Monday, that there were messages that she left you
that you never received, but messages that you left her, true?

A. Yes.

Q. And after you returned on the 13th, the last time that you saw Ms. Barbieri
was the morning of the 17th, when she left and went back to Florida; is that
correct?

A. I'm sorry; what date are we on, now?

Q. We're on the morning of the 17th.

A. Yes, I saw her when she was heading back to Florida.

Q. Okay.

And then the next time that you saw her after that, you would have been in jail
or incarcerated?

A. That's correct.

Q. And during that time period when you were in jail, she came to visit you,
true?

A. Correct.

Q. And in connection with one of her visits, the subject matter of messages
came up, correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And during that conversation, you asked her whether she had a message that
she had left -- You had left her, true?

A. I don't know if I asked her or if it was a subject that the lawyers or
someone was asking, but somehow it came up, yes.

Q. And you asked her to check to see whether those messages were still on her
tape machine, didn't you?

A. I don't recall.

Q. Certain of that?

A. Certain of that.

Q. And you asked her to see if she could retrieve the tape and bring it to you
or to your lawyer, didn't you?

A. I don't recall doing that. But that would have been something that I would
have done.

Q. To ask her to retrieve the messages you left her?

A. I would have, at that point in time -- I don't know at what point in time
this came up. It would could have been a month or two after. I would have tried
-- if it was a subject that was being discussed, I would have tried to get as
much information as I can get from anybody and tell them to bring it to the
lawyers.

Q. And the reason why you were asking questions about messages you left on her
machine is, you knew that was important to retrieve that message, right?

A. No, sir, not necessarily.

I don't know if I asked her to get a message from her machine. I think the
subject matter her and I had was that she was upset with me.

Q. How many times during the course of your incarceration did the subject
matter of messages come up between you and Ms. Barbieri?

A. That may have been the only time.

Q. And was that when she was physically at your cell or the place of
incarceration --

A. Yes --

Q. -- or was that over the phone?

A. -- I believe it was. I'm not sure. I'm pretty sure it was at one of her
visits, and we were just talking about general stuff.

Q. You ever ask her to get rid of the tapes, Mr. Simpson?

A. No.

Q. Certain of that?

A. Yes.

Q. You see on the monitor what's been marked and actually admitted into
evidence as Exhibit 761, and it's entitled, To Whom it May Concern.

A. Yes.

Q. That's a letter that you wrote, or a note that you wrote on June 17; is that
correct?

A. Yes.

(The instrument herein referred to as Handwritten note dated June 15, 1994 by
O.J. Simpson was marked for identification as Plaintiffs' Exhibit No. 761.)

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) You see in the upper right-hand corner, June 15, 1994?

A. Yes.

Q. That's not the date that you wrote this note?

A. That's correct.

Q. And, in fact, the first time that you ever put pen to paper in connection
with this note was on the morning of June 17, 1994, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And it was only after you were told that you were going to be arrested that
you first put pen to paper to write this note, true?

A. I believe so, yes.

Q. And it was only after that you had learned evidence that linked you to these
murders, that you put pen to paper on June 17 and wrote this note, true, sir?

A. I don't know about that. I just know that they were going to arrest me.

Q. Well, Mr. Simpson, you knew by June 17 that your blood was found at
Rockingham and Bundy, didn't you, sir.

A. I don't think that there was much talk about that --

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. I don't think there was that much talk about that. All I know is that they
were going to arrest me.

Q. Well, you knew they were going to arrest you in connection with a double
murder, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you decided at that point, to draft this note, this letter, true?

A. That's correct.

Q. And after it was completed, you gave it to Robert Kardashian to read,
telling him that he would know when to read it, right?

A. I believe I gave it to AC.

Q. Okay.

And you told AC that he would know when to read it or when it should be read?

A. I don't believe so. I think I just gave it to him.

Q. Well, you knew, sir, that this letter was going to be read in the event of
your death, didn't you?

A. I would have assumed so, yes.

Q. That was your intention, wasn't it?

A. That's correct.

Q. That's why you made references, asking the press to leave you alone, leave
your family alone, right?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And in connection with drafting this, sir, on the first page --

MR. BREWER: Steve, if you could scroll down to the bottom -- see about where it
says "unlike" -- what's been unlike -- what's been in the press --

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) See that reference there, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. "Nicole and I had a great relationship for most of our lives together."

All long-term relationships, we had a --

Like all long-term relationships, we had a few downs and ups. I took the heat
for New Years 1989 because that was what I was supposed to do. I did not plea
nolo for any other reason but to protect our privacy, and was advised that it
would end the press hype.

Did I read that correctly, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. Did you write that?

A. Yes.

Q. You told this jury, Mr. Simpson, on at least 15 occasions, that you take
full responsibility for the injuries that you caused to Nicole Brown Simpson in
connection with the New Year's Day incident in 1989, haven't you?

A. I take total and full responsibility for my actions that night, yes.

Q. And you also took full responsibility for your actions and the consequences
of your actions at the time that you drafted this note, didn't you?

A. That's absolutely correct. For my actions. That's absolutely correct.

Q. And when you say in this note that you "took the heat because it was what I
was supposed to do," you're intending to imply to the public, to your
supporters, that you are taking full responsibility for the injuries that you
caused in 1989; is that what you're saying?

A. I think that's in part.

I think the total intent was, Nicole was not going to testify.

Nicole, as you may have seen on national TV from her mother, stated she was
just as much at fault and she started the fight.

I didn't think that Nicole and I should be in a courtroom trying to explain to
the public, in essence, what took place that night. So I took full
responsibility and pleaded no contest.

Q. Um-hum.

These are your very last thoughts and impressions before you anticipated taking
your life, right, Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. And one of the last things that you wanted people to know was that you were
a battered husband and boyfriend, right?

A. I think whatever I was feeling at the time had a lot to do with what was
happening that week, and I -- I was obviously pretty distraught, and when I was
writing the letter, that's how I was feeling.

Q. You referred to yourself in this letter as a battered husband and battered
boyfriend; is that true?

A. I think at times I felt that way, yes.

Q. And, Mr. Simpson, in this scenario, who's the batterer?

Who battered you, sir?

A. Excuse me?

Q. Who battered you?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I'm going to object.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Well, sir, when you said that you were a battered husband,
you intended to imply that somebody battered you, true?

A. Yes.

Q. Who battered you?

A. I felt -- I meant to convey that at times I felt battered.

And from what Nicole and I went through in therapy, I think we both came to the
conclusion that we were abusive to one another at times in our relationship.
Sometimes it was probably more verbal than physical.

Q. Was it your belief, Mr. Simpson, that in 1994, when you smashed the
windshield of her vehicle, that you were a battered boyfriend at that time?

MR. BAKER: Object.

A. No.

MR. BAKER: Argumentative. Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. Sir, can you identify any specific incidents that you believe resulted in
your being battered by Nicole?

A. Times when she hit me?

Q. Yeah.

A. Yes. There was -- a -- numerous times after that, and I kept a log of it.

Q. In 1989, did you consider yourself to be a battered husband as a result of
that incident?

A. I felt -- I think Nicole admitted -- her mother said on national TV -- she
admitted to her and Cora Fischman, that the physical side of it was initiated
by Nicole.

I felt that I should have still reacted differently than I reacted. I think my
reactions were inappropriate. I think I should have just left, but I didn't,
and I was wrong for the way I reacted, yes.

Q. And one of the incidents that you're referring to in this note where you
talk about yourself being a battered husband, is the 1989 incident, right?

A. When I talk about myself, at times I felt like a battered husband, yes.

Q. And you're referring to the 1989 incident, just so we're perfectly clear?

A. No, I wasn't. I was referring to a couple of incidents after 1989.

Q. You're not referring to the 1989 incident when you talk about yourself, in
this note, as being a battered husband; is that what you're now saying?

A. In general, that may have been also there, but I don't think I specifically
tried to break it down to any specific incident.

The way I was feeling at the time was, I think, a little put upon by what was
happening that week, and I think in general, that's how I was feeling. And
that's what I --

Q. Well, sir, how about right now?

Tell this jury in 1989, as a result of that incident, were you battered?

A. In 1989?

MR. BAKER: I object. Objection. Asked and answered. Argumentative.

MR. BREWER: Has that been asked and answered?

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BREWER: On what ground?

THE COURT: I think that's an irrelevant question.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Okay.

Mr. Simpson, in connection with the 1993 incident where Nicole contacted 911 to
have you removed from Gretna Green, did you consider yourself -- were you
battered in that incident?

A. No.

Q. You, yourself indicated --

MR. BREWER: And Steve, if you can go to page 4 of the note.

(Mr. Foster complies.)

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) You state, Mr. Simpson, about midway down through the first
paragraph,

"All of her friends will confirm that I've been totally loving and
understanding of what she's been going through."

You see that reference?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr. Simpson, in June of 1994, you believe Nicole Brown Simpson was afraid of
you, afraid for her own physical safety?

A. No.

Q. And do you believe that her friends, her close friends, shared that view?

A. I'm sorry? Shared what view?

Q. That she was not afraid of you, not afraid for her own physical safety as of
June of 1994?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Relevance.

A. I don't know.

THE COURT: Objection sustained. The state of mind of others is irrelevant.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) If Cora Fischman testified at her deposition that Nicole
Brown Simpson had told her --

MR. BAKER: I'm going to object to this. This is an improper way to get --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. BREWER) Mr. Simpson, you also refer to yourself in this note as "a
lost person." And in connection with that statement, you say,

"Ask people to remember the real O.J. not this lost person."

Do you recall writing that, sir?

A. Yes.

Q. And that was a reflection of your state of mind at the time; is that true?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

Now, Mr. Simpson, who is the real O.J. that you were talking about?

A. I like to think I was a guy that everyone who had a problem, my friends,
including Nicole, when we were together and when we were divorced, when she had
real serious issues and problems, that I was the person that they could come
to.

I like to think I treated everybody the way I -- my basic philosophy in life
was to do unto others. I think in just about every case, I treated everybody
the way I wanted to be treated.

The general public, I always had time for people. I was involved in charities.
Nicole's family and friends, when they had problems, they came to me. And I'd
like to think I was a good friend to all of them.

Q. And, Mr. Simpson, this lost person that you referred to, that's a double
murderer, isn't it?

A. No.

Q. That's the person who, on June 12, took the lives of two young people?

A. That's incorrect.

Q. Mr. Simpson, this letter makes no mention of outrage or spite about the
person that you believe was responsible for the death of Nicole, does it?

A. I don't believe so.

Q. You don't say one word about it, do you?

A. I don't know who is responsible for it.

Q. In fact, you didn't believe it was you, did you?

A. I knew it wasn't me.

Q. And knowing that it's not you, as you've testified yesterday, you have no
explanation for any of the evidence, is that true?

MR. BAKER: Objection. Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BREWER: I have nothing further. Thank you.

FURTHER DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. KELLY:

Q. Mr. Simpson, on January 1, 1989, after you had removed Nicole from your
bedroom the second time, she went downstairs before you, did she not?

A. Yes.

Q. And after she had been downstairs, she went out the back door prior to you
going up there, did she not?

A. The back door was open; yes.

Q. She went up before you?

A. Yes.

Q. And she also went into Michelle's bedroom before you, did she not?

She went out before you got up?

A. That's correct.

Q. After she had been in Michelle's bedroom, she left there before you, also,
did she not?

A. That's correct.

Q. And after she left Michelle's bedroom the second time, she remained hiding
out in the bushes till the police arrived, also, did she not?

A. I'm not aware that -- she left Michelle's bedroom on two occasions, and the
one occasion she went out. I don't know where she went.

Q. Well, she was outside when the police arrived, was she not?

A. That's what I'm told.

Q. Now, isn't it a fact, Mr. Simpson, that when you walked into Michelle's room
and she was on the phone, you hit her at that time?

A. No, that's not.

MR. KELLY: Steve, can you play Exhibit 1, please.

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I object to playing the tape.

MR. KELLY: I'm not playing the whole thing, just ten seconds.

MR. BAKER: I don't care.

THE COURT: Overruled.

(Plaintiffs' Exhibit 1, 911 tape, is played.)

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Can you stop.

Do you hear those screams, Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. Is that Nicole?

A. I would assume so.

Q. Okay.

And if an experienced 911 operator testified that she could hear someone being
hit on the other end of the line --

MR. BAKER: I object. This is improper.

Q. -- would she be mistaken, Mr. Simpson?

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, when the police arrived, you didn't think they had a
reason to be there because you saw it as a family matter; is that correct?

A. I don't know if I had at the time, but when the police arrived they got
started in an argument with me.

Q. What I'm asking you, you basically saw that as a family matter at that time,
did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

And you saw it a as a family matter because you basically just restrained
Nicole and wrestled with her a little bit, correct?

A. I don't think that was my testimony.

Q. Well, I'm asking you now, is that --

A. No.

Q. Is that how you view a family matter?

A. I said I was very, very physical in getting her out of the bedroom. And I
got her out of the bedroom, but it was very physical.

Q. Once again, my question to you is: When the police arrived, you saw it as a
family matter?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay.

Now, it's also your testimony that you left in your Rolls with the police there
because your daughter Arnelle, and Michelle, your housekeeper, didn't want you
in an argument with the police officers; is that correct?

A. That was part of it, yes. I made comments of that.

Q. And at the time you left, the police weren't even on your property, were
they?

A. You know, I couldn't see them. They were on Ashford, so I didn't see where
they were. But I knew they were parked over on Ashford.

Q. But you never saw them on your property, did you?

A. I believe that Officer Edward, at one point, walked onto my property. But
when I left, they were outside the wall, I presume. I didn't know they were --
you know, I had assumed they were still outside the wall over there.

Q. They were outside the gate, also?

A. That's correct.

Q. And that's a big, six-foot iron gate?

A. I don't believe so.

Oh, you mean the wrought iron gate at the gate?

Then I had a wall. You couldn't see them through the gate, where they were
parked. They were behind the wall.

Q. In any event, you could have walked outside your house at this time, could
you not, Mr. Simpson?

A. Yes.

Q. But instead, you got in your Rolls and left. And in your mind, I believe you
indicated you felt you were free to leave then; is that correct?

A. Yes.

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered, Your Honor.

THE COURT: Overruled.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) And the police never told you, as you testified, that they
were going to place you under arrest at the time for spousal battery, correct?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. Okay.

And after you left there, you drove over to your friend, Alan Schwartz's house,
did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. How far is that from your house, Mr. Simpson?

A. A mile.

Q. Did you park on the street when you got there?

A. Yes.

Q. You didn't park in the driveway?

A. Maybe the driveway. I don't know.

There was a parking area that's right next to his garage, so I may have pulled
into that area.

Q. In fact, you did park there in that area, didn't you, Mr. Simpson?

A. I may have. I'm not certain. It's normally where I would park when I go to
his house.

Q. You didn't have a flat tire when you got there, did you?

A. No.

Q. You didn't run out of gas?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Now, by the way, what year was this Rolls Royce?

A. I don't know.

Q. Was it a vintage car, an older car?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And do you recall what the license plates were?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

Did you have your "juice" plates on it at that time?

A. No.

Q. Now, there came a time when a little later, after you had gone to Alan
Schwartz's house, that you went back to Rockingham, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And you drove Alan Schwartz's car back there, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. When you drove Alan Schwartz's car back there, other than your Rolls Royce,
you didn't pull into your driveway, did you?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't park in front of the Rockingham gates, did you?

A. No.

Q. And you didn't park in front of the Ashford gate, did you?

A. No.

Q. In fact, you parked up the street on Ashford, on the opposite side facing
west, did you not?

A. No.

Q. Where did you park?

A. On Bristol.

Q. Parked on Bristol, actually, around the corner from Ashford?

A. Yes, at the house, on the other side --

Q. Okay.

A. -- of my house.

Q. And after you parked your car on Bristol, you then climbed over a fence on
the abutting property and then walked into your backyard, did you not?

A. No.

Q. Never climbed over a fence?

A. No.

Q. Okay.

And after you had gone through the Von Watts backyard -- that's what you did,
isn't it?

A. Tennis courts.

Q. And you went through your backyard, you went into your house again, did you
not?

A. Yes.

Q. And you started up with Nicole a second time that night, didn't you, Mr.
Simpson?

A. No.

Q. You were having a fight with her again, weren't you, Mr. Simpson?

A. No.

Q. And in fact, Michelle, your housekeeper, called your dear friend, Al
Cowlings, to come over at this time, did she not?

A. I have no idea.

Q. Well, you don't know? You have no idea if Michelle called him, correct?

A. Correct.

Q. Well, shortly after you arrived back in that house, Mr. Cowlings showed up,
did he not?

A. I believe so.

I think he was there. I'm pretty sure he was there.

Q. Okay.

He was there when you got there?

A. He was there, at one time, when I came back. I think I came back a few hours
after that, again, and he was there.

Q. So if Al Cowlings said he received a phone call to come over because you and
Nicole were fighting, he would be mistaken?

MR. BAKER: I would object to this. This is hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. BAKER: Improper --

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Now, there came a time that you left --

By the way, when you left Rockingham, was Mr. Cowlings there, still, at that
time?

A. I think at the time I left -- I just don't remember him being there at that
time. I think he was there the next time I came back. I just don't recall him
being there then.

Q. Well, the time you had gone over there in Alan Schwartz's car and left
again, did you leave carrying anything from the house when you left to go back
to Alan Schwartz's car?

A. I carried some clothes for the next day. I carried some jewelry that Nicole
had thrown all over the floor, and I carried it. I think that's about it.

Q. You carried a bag out of there, didn't you?

A. Pardon me?

Q. You carried that out of there in a bag, did you not?

A. I really think I just wrapped the clothes up and my jewelry.

I have a little thing that you fold over that I keep my jewelry in, some of
hers, and I put it back in that, yes.

Q. Okay.

So the black fold-up case?

A. Yeah.

It was only about this big (indicating), not really a case.

Q. And there was Nicole's jewelry you put in there?

A. No, mostly my jewelry. I put a couple pieces of hers.

Q. And when you left carrying that -- that case, you exited the back and went
into the Von Watts backyard?

A. Yeah. I went through the back gate and went out one of their gates.

Q. And it's your testimony that you didn't climb over the Von Watts fence again
to get to your car?

A. I didn't have to. They had two gates. Like my gates, they were always open.

Q. I'm asking you --

A. No, I did not.

Q. -- climb over a fence?

A. No.

Q. You never told Al Cowlings that you climbed over a fence at Von Watts to get
to the street?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And when you got to Alan Schwartz's car, you were missing car keys, weren't
you?

A. Yes.

Q. And in fact, when you were going through the backyard somewhere, you had
dropped these keys, correct?

A. Well, I didn't know if I had dropped them or if I had left them in my house.

Q. Oh, by the time you got back through Von Watts' property to Alan Schwartz's
car, you were missing the car keys, were you not?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay.

And you also had this bag in your possession, still, to transport to Schwartz's
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And what, if anything, did you do with the bag at this time?

A. Well, while I was -- when I couldn't -- I didn't have a key, so I couldn't
get back in his car. So right where my car was parked was some foliage and a
garbage can, and I put the -- I just put the clothes next to it and I put the
bag underneath the lid, 'cause it was full, and I went back and tried to track
my way back.

I went back into my house. I didn't see it. I came back, traced myself back
again, looking for the key. And when I picked up my clothes and walked to
Alan's house, and I forgot the bag.

Q. You left it in a garbage can?

A. Yeah, the top of -- under a lid.

Q. Okay.

And when you got back to Schwartz's, you made a call to Al Cowlings, did you
not?

A. I don't think so. I think Alan showed up at Schwartz's.

Q. In any event, when Cowlings showed up at Schwartz's, you told, or you asked
him to retrace your steps through VanWotts and through your backyard?

A. Yeah.

Q. First of all, to look for your car keys, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Isn't it a fact, first of all, Mr. Simpson, that he found those car keys at
the base of a fence in VanWotts' was the property?

A. I have no idea where he found them. He never told me where he found them.

But all our properties are surrounded by a fence, so -- and I know when I walk
there, I walked along the property and came through the gate, so I could have
dropped it there.

Q. And you also asked him to get the black bag out of the garbage can, did you
not?

A. Actually, he was leaving, and I was getting up at that time, and I realized
the black bag wasn't with me. And I told him that my Rolex -- I left my Rolex
back there. I told him I -- where I thought I left it, and he got it.

Q. He got the black bag out of the garbage can?

A. Yeah, off the top lid.

Q. By the way, this house where you had put this black bag, it was in a garbage
can behind someone's house, was it not?

A. No, that's not correct.

Q. It wasn't on the street?

A. Yes. The way they kept their garbage is like I normally keep mine; it's -- I
have a wall and they didn't have a wall. I would say it's about 10 feet off the
street.

Q. Up off the driveway?

A. Up the drive, 10 feet off the street, and it's sort of surrounded by hedges.

Q. So we're clear, when you drove Schwartz's car back, you parked on Bristol
around the corner; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. Okay. And you went through someone else's property to get to your property,
correct?

A. Yes. I walked through the Schwartz's, which I do often when we're walking
the dogs and things.

Q. You lost an item you were carrying at some point when you went through the
backyard also, did you not, Mr. Simpson?

A. As I said, I lost the keys.

Q. You lost something going through the backyard, Mr. Simpson?

A. I lost the keys. I don't know where I lost it. As I said, I don't know if
Alan ever told me where he found my keys in my yard, in my house, in the
backyard. I don't recall him ever telling me where he found the keys.

Q. Okay. And you basically hid a black bag in a garbage can also?

A. Yeah. I put the clothes there. I didn't think if I was looking for the keys
if anybody walked out because dogs were barking, they would take the clothes. I
didn't want them to take my -- My jewelry.

Q. When you parked the Schwartz car and went through VanWotts into your house,
as far as you know, nobody saw you, did they?

A. No dogs were barking at me but I don't think anybody saw me. It was 5
o'clock in the morning.

Q. Mr. Simpson, isn't this exactly what happened on June 12, 1994 that you went
over a fence, you dropped something, you hid a bag and you almost avoided
detection then also; isn't that correct, Mr. Simpson?

MR. BAKER: I object. That's argumentative, without foundation.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That's incorrect. Plus I didn't go over a fence.

Q. And if Al Cowlings, your closest friend, says that you told him you went
over a fence he's lying; is that correct?

MR. BAKER: I object. That calls for hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) And once again, it's your testimony that you, as you sit here
today, that when you pulled out of your driveway that morning, you did not know
you were to be arrested for spousal battery; is that correct?

MR. BAKER: Asked and answered.

THE COURT: Sustained.

MR. KELLY:

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) You felt free to leave?

MR. BAKER: Asked --

A. I left.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) Okay.

And you're certain of that?

A. I'm certain I left, yes.

Q. And you're certain you were told you were going to be arrested?

A. They did not tell me I was going to get arrested.

Q. You're sure you never hit Nicole that New Year's Day?

A. I -- I'm certain I didn't hit her.

I was very physical.

Q. You're certain you didn't murder Nicole on June 12?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. By the way, if Nicole told AC that you had hit her, would she not be
truthful?

MR. BAKER: This is hearsay.

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) If Nicole told AC that you pulled her hair, would she be
lying then?

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, this is --

THE COURT: Sustained.

Q. (BY MR. KELLY) By the way, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Cowlings has been one of your
closest friends since childhood, has he not?

A. My very best friend.

Q. Okay.

Played high school, college, pro football with him?

A. That's correct.

Q. And there were times, even when you were on the road, that he would live at
your house when Nicole was there, right?

A. When Nicole wasn't there, yes.

Q. And would it be fair to say that he and Nicole loved each other like a
brother and sister?

A. Very much so.

Q. Okay.

And, in fact, AC is the one who -- Al Cowlings drove you up the 405 before you
were placed under arrest the 17th; is that correct?

A. That's correct.

Q. And he was actually a pall bearer at Nicole's funeral?

A. Yes.

Q. Now, just one other thing Mr. Simpson:

You had testified as to a large number of phone calls you made to Judy Brown
right after Nicole left you in early '92, correct?

A. Virtually daily.

Q. Okay.

Sometimes you called her as much as five times a day?

A. I don't think so, 'cause she would call me sometimes, also.

Q. You talked to her a lot?

A. I talked to her for hours and hours

Q. After your divorce became final in '92, that sort of stopped; you didn't
keep making those phone calls, did you?

A. I think that stopped long before it became final.

We may have talked from time to time before that, but certainly after May, it
really wasn't nearly -- wasn't even close to what it had been before, and she
would call me from time to time.

Q. And is it a fact, Mr. Simpson that right after May 22, when Nicole had given
you back the earrings and the diamond bracelet, and told you she didn't want to
have anything to do with you anymore, you made one final call to Judy Brown?

A. First of all, that didn't happen. What you're claiming didn't happen.

Q. So that's not true?

A. Not true.

Q. After you received the earrings and diamond bracelet back from Nicole, did
you make a phone call to Judy Brown?

A. I may have talked to her that week, yes.

Q. Isn't it true you may have said something to the effect, Judy, the first
time it's my fault, but this time it's really going to hurt, Judy.

Do you remember saying something to that effect to her?

A. Absolutely not.

Q. And Judy, in turn, just told you to let her go, let Nicole go, and get on
with her life? Did she say that to you?

MR. BAKER: That's hearsay.

THE COURT: Overruled.

A. That's absolutely not true. Judy was continually telling me about her
concerns for Nicole, just like Nicole's other friends are -- were telling me at
this time.

Q. And you did make it hurt for Nicole at the end, didn't you, Mr. Simpson?

A. I believe Nicole wanted us back together at that time, so I imagine by her
actions, it hurt her a little bit, yes.

Q. Well, you did more than that; you murdered her on June 12, didn't you, Mr.
Simpson?

A. That's absolutely false.

Q. And you murdered Ron Goldman?

A. That's absolutely wrong.

MR. KELLY: I have no further questions, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER: Can we take a short break?

THE COURT: Ten-minute recess.

(Recess.)

(The jurors resumed their respective seats.)

MR. BAKER: Your Honor, I apologize. I've changed my mind. I will put Mr.
Simpson on and go through his whole testimony in our case later in December.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: Your Honor, I'm sorry.

THE COURT: You may step down.

THE WITNESS: Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI: As discussed in chambers yesterday, we'll be prepared to call
the remaining witnesses in our case on Tuesday, when we resume.

THE COURT: Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, we'll adjourn until Tuesday at 8:30.

Remember the admonition I gave you at the start of this morning's session.
Don't allow yourselves to be grilled about anything connected with your
participation in this case, by any of your friends or family members over the
holidays.

Excuse me.

Don't watch any news or read anything about this case.

Have a very happy Thanksgiving.

Thank you very much.

JURORS: Thank you, Your Honor.

You too, Judge.

(At 10:02 A.M. an adjournment was taken until Tuesday, December 3, 1996, at
8:30 A.M.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-11</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B009-27</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/oct/oct23.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054209 text/html 206781
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:51:37 GMT
Last-modified: Friday, 25-Oct-96 20:44:59 GMT
Content-length: 206588
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>

<HEAD>

<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (10/23/96)</TITLE>

</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">

<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>

<BR CLEAR=ALL>

<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>

WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>

<HR ALIGN=LEFT WIDTH=525>

<PRE>



REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT OCTOBER 23, 1996



SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES





SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,



VS.



ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.





SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA; WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1996

9:00 A.M.



DEPARTMENT NO. WEE

HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)





(The following proceedings occurred in the Judge's Chambers, in

camera, and this portion of the record is to be sealed.)





SEALED PROCEEDINGS DELETED





(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the

presence of the jury.)





THE COURT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.



AUDIENCE:  Good morning, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  We're going to address some motions made by both sides.



The first motion the Court will address is defendant's motion to

exclude expert witness Terry Lee on the ground that plaintiff has not

made him readily available for deposition.



MR. LAMBERT:  Thomas Lambert.  Thank you.  Yes, Your Honor.



In regard to Terry Lee, the situation is as follows:  On September 3,

the Court granted our motion to add Terry Lee as an expert witness.



On September 5, I wrote to Mr. Blasier, saying you've been trying to

reach him by telephone to schedule Terry Lee's deposition, and

suggesting September 9 as a deposition date.



Later that day, Mr. Blasier called me and said he would like to take

Mr. Lee's deposition the very next day, Friday, September the 6th.



I explained that because Mr. Petrocelli had gone out of town to assist

in the Henry Lee depositions -- you will remember at that time, Mr.

Medvene was a little incapacitated.



So Mr. Petrocelli had gone to assist in that deposition, and I was

responsible for filing a number of papers that were due Friday

morning, in limine briefs and joint trial statements, among others. 

So I suggested to Mr. Blasier we do the deposition the following week.



He said that he was going to go home to Sacramento that week and

didn't want to do the deposition the following week, I then suggested

that we do it on Saturday.



He told me that he was leaving for Sacramento on Friday, so he really

couldn't do it any of those days.



I then suggested, well, let's file the papers Friday morning; we'll do

the deposition Friday afternoon.



He told me he had a one o'clock flight and didn't want to change his

flight.



So we then agreed that if we weren't able to schedule the deposition,

then we'd have to do it sometime later, during trial.



During jury selection, Mr. Blasier came to me and said that he would

like to now schedule Terry Lee's deposition.



I said fine, but I know he's in Japan on an extended trip right now,

because he told me when he left, he was going to be gone for a while;

I'll get you a date.



I called him on Monday, and his office told me he was still out of the

office.  I called him this week; he is now back, and I have a proposed

date for him.



THE COURT:  What's that.



MR. LAMBERT:  A week from Saturday, November the 2.



MR. BLASIER:  We want to have the deposition before opening.



THE COURT:  Mr. Blasier, I'm perfectly willing to have you depose him.

 Somebody's inability to depose him was not entirely the plaintiff's

fault or the witness's fault.  It appears to have been some of your

fault.



So if you want to depose him, you can. If you don't want to depose

him, don't.



MR. BLASIER:  We do.  We ask that he not refer to him in opening.  I

don't know whether they intend to or not.



THE COURT:  Well, whether you depose him or not is going to be up to

you.  He's going to be a witness in this case.  You had the

opportunity to depose him. You're going to have to bend your schedule

a little bit to do that.



MR. BLASIER:  We intend to.



THE COURT:  Well, you have to.  Let me give you the opportunity.  He's

going to testify; you're going to have the opportunity to depose him. 

If you don't depose him, that would be your election.  Pick a date.



MR. BLASIER:  What was the Date that was offered?



MR. LAMBERT:  A week from Saturday, November the 2nd.



MR. BLASIER:  That's fine.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, can we keep them from referring to him in

opening, because we've been trying to get expert depositions since

July of this year.



THE COURT:  Well, you can refer to him because, Mr. Blasier, you could

have deposed him, I guess, in your schedule, and you didn't.



Defendant's motion to preclude reference on swatch drawing experiments

by Matheson, defendant contends that plaintiff designated Matheson as

an expert witness regarding tests performed by LAPD to determine blood

type and related matters, and that plaintiffs' expert, Fox, testified

that in deposition that he discussed with Matheson, and received notes

from him offered by someone having to do with some drawing tests he

did on bindle 47.



Is Matheson going to be testifying with regard to some drawing tests?



MR. LAMBERT:  No, he's not, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Okay.



MR. LAMBERT:  We don't intend to offer his opinion on that subject.



THE COURT:  Will there be some testimony regarding drawing tests by

anyone?



MR. LAMBERT:  By Fox, who has been deposed on that subject.



THE COURT:  Okay.  Motion to preclude reference to swatch experiment

drawing expert Matheson's -- testimony by Matheson is precluded. 

Reference to any tests performed by him may or may not be admissible,

depending on what the foundation is.



MR. BLASIER:  Your Honor, may we reserve the right, since Mr. Fox is

going to testify about that, of withdrawing this motion so that we can

cross-examine Mr. Matheson?



THE COURT:  Excuse me, though; you want to cross-examine Matheson?



MR. BLASIER:  We want to preclude Mr. Fox from testifying, as well, as

a way of getting in the back door by having Mr. Fox testify to

something that some other expert did.



We are objecting to that, as well.  But if he's going to be allowed to

testify about it, we --



THE COURT:  Okay.  As I understand the law on expert testimony, if Fox

testifies to some conclusions based upon data obtained by somebody

else, that's not impermissible.  So if you want to cross-examine

Matheson about the data itself, you certainly may withdraw the motion.



MR. BLASIER:  Thank you.



THE COURT:  Defendant's motion to strike plaintiffs' supplemental

witness list.



Defendant moves to strike Goldman's supplemental witness list because

those witnesses were known to him before filing a joint amended

statement, which is, I believe, September 10, 1996, and they were

omitted from that joint amended statement.



I'll hear from the defendant.



MR. GELBLUM:  Your Honor, this is not at all the same situation we

faced when we were moving to strike witnesses from defendant's witness

list.



The basis of that was failure to provide those names in discovery,

Your Honor, when they were requested.  And the Court ruled that they

had not provided them in discovery, even though they knew about them. 

So they should be stricken from the list on that basis.  All of these

witnesses are people that have been known to the defendant for some

period of time.



The witness list, of course, will not change until long after

discovery closes, so that there's no prejudice, because they couldn't

have been deposed anyway.



The witness list, the parties of Goldman exchanging and supplementing

exhibit lists constantly. As late as yesterday, the defense filed an

additional exhibit list.



So there's absolutely no prejudice of the six people, Your Honor.



Mr. Miller, Vern Miller, slight misstatement in the defendant's

papers.  He is a photographer, not a videographer.  His sole purpose

will be to authenticate one or two photographs; that's all he'll be

doing.  It's really not an issue of the authenticity of it; that's all

he'll be doing.



Mr. Peters they have known about for exactly the same length of time

that we have known about him.  He was revealed in the deposition of

Harry Scull in this action on July 1, 1996.



They had the opportunity to depose him, investigate him, talk to him,

whatever they wanted to do.



Mr. Wilson is a photographer for the Los Angeles Police Department. 

Again, he took pictures on June 13, 1994.  The defense has known about

him for over two years.



Mr. Lovold is an LAPD officer whose sole participation in the case was

to open up Mr. Simpson's Bronco at the print shed on June 14, 1996,

very short witness that they've known about for two years.



The fifth and sixth is the Terrance Watson.  Again, like Mr. Peters,

they learned about exactly when we did, at a deposition in March of

this year.  So they've had all the opportunity in the world to talk to

him or even depose him if they wanted to.



And finally detective -- Commander Gartland is a -- Captain Gartland

is an officer with the LAPD, and he was involved in the original

investigation.  And they, again, have known about him for two years.



No prejudice whatsoever to calling these people, because they've known

about all of them, some before we did, and certainly none later than

we did.



MR. BAKER:  Phil Baker for the defense.



That's exactly the point.  They knew about all these witnesses long

before the September 10 filing:  Peters on July 1, 1996 deposition;

Terrance Watson on March 19, 1996 deposition, the Commander Gartland

on June 11, 1996; these photographers and print chip people were known

in November, December in 1995.



The purpose of the joint amended statement -- the purpose of Local

Rule 7.9 is to give the opposing party a chance to prepare for these

witnesses.  And what we did is, when we were going to exchange our

witness list, we conversed with the other side and wound up exchanging

simultaneously, so neither side would be sand-bagged.



And the purpose is because we're going to prepare folders and prepare

attorneys to be ready to analyze -- examine these witnesses when they

come on the stand.  They knew about these people as early as a year

ago.  And now they're giving us new witnesses on October 4 and October

16, well after jury selection has commenced.



We have been prejudiced.  And the point is, they knew about them and

they should have put them on their joint amended statement.



MR. GELBLUM:  Your Honor, may I, one brief --



THE COURT:  No.



MR. GELBLUM:  No.



THE COURT:  The basis on which the Court struck the defendant's

amended witness list was the defendant's failure to comply with

discovery order; to wit, failure to disclose all witnesses and

interrogatories that defendant was ordered to respond to without

objection.  And that was a ruling that was made by this Court on

September 4, 1996.



The defendant's motion, in this instance, relates to no such discovery

sanctions.  It would appear to this Court that the defendant, in view

of all these witnesses, knew of all of these witnesses well in advance

of time, and was not the subject of a discovery sanction.



The motion to preclude is denied.



The motion to strike is denied.



Plaintiff Goldman's motion for order precluding defense from referring

in opening statement to Fuhrman's recent plea of nolo contendre to the

charge of perjury and conviction thereon, and Fuhrman's testimony in

the criminal trial, that he's expected to testify.



May I hear if moving -- I'm sorry.  I'll hear from the defendants.



MR. LEONARD:  Where I come, from this is called a sandbag, Your Honor.

 We went through four weeks of jury selection in which Mark Fuhrman's

name came up early and often.  It was referred to by both the defense

and the plaintiffs.  Mr. Petrocelli indicated on more than one

occasion that the jury may very well hear from Mr. Fuhrman, either in

person or from his testimony being read in.



Obviously, the plaintiffs knew that this was going to be an issue. 

They knew by virtue of the fact that Mr. Fuhrman had pled the Fifth on

two different occasions, and by virtue of the fact he was domiciled in

Idaho; that the only way, most likely, that we'd be able to get his

testimony in, would be through reading his prior -- his former

testimony at the criminal trial.  And yet, they sat for months, almost

-- exactly 60 days after motions in limine were required to be filed.



And that led us to take positions in front of the jury -- in front of

every single juror, that will sit in this case.  They took positions

themselves.  And now, as an afterthought, Mr. Petrocelli, in open

court the other day, says, "Well, we don't think it's admissible."



The time for filing motions in limine was 60 days ago.  It was an

extremely important reason that that be done.



This is, as Your Honor has noted, a principal witness in this case. 

And we think that we've been absolutely had on this; and for that

reason alone, the motion should be denied.



As far as the merits of the plaintiffs' position, number one, the use

of the term "cross-examination" in the statute, I think, is incidental

to -- the purpose is collateral, if you will, to the purpose of the

statute.



The statute describes a hearsay exception that relies on the fact that

at the former hearing, that the declarant was cross-examined and

directly examined, that he was examined.  So that now, when his

testimony is read in, the triers of facts will be able to determine --

will have the ability to determine whether or not, in fact, his

testimony is reliable.



I've cited a situation in the evidentiary code with regard to an

adverse witness, where the term "cross-examination" is used to simply

refer to the examination of a witness by the party who goes second.



And, in fact, I've also cited a case where the situation was, a

plaintiff in a insurance bad-faith case was utilizing testimony from a

prior worker's compensation hearing, where the judge was the person

who had put the questions to the plaintiff, not an adverse party. 

It's just an examination.  It had some -- I assume it had some

elements of cross-examination.  But the point is that there was an

opportunity -- there was a similar interest in and motive to examine

the witness.



In this case, Detective Fuhrman was on the stand for five days.



He was subject to direct and redirect examination on the very same

issues that are in this case now, by the prosecutor, Marcia Clark. 

She spent hours and hundreds of questions asking him about all the

facts and circumstances surrounding the manner in which he found the

glove, the manner in which he discovered the blood on the outside of

the Bronco, the manner in which he questioned Kato Kaelin, the

circumstances in which he entered the Rockingham property.  These are

the very same issues that exist in this case.



I can't imagine that the plaintiffs would be in any different

position.  I can't imagine that they could possibly conceive of any

questions that weren't already put to this witness.



Basically what's going on here, the plaintiffs want to have it both

ways.  They want to be able to put on summary witnesses here to talk

about the chain of custody, to talk about the manner in which the

evidence was collected.  By virtue of the public employee record

exception, they want this Court and the jury to assume, or to reach

the presumption that the evidence was collected in the ordinary course

of the policemen's duties; that the police, including Fuhrman, can be

relied upon; that the source of these documents with regard to chain

of custody is trustworthy.



At the same time, they actually state in their moving papers, on page

5, that they are not in the position to vouch for Fuhrman.



I don't understand that if Fuhrman -- on the one hand, they're looking

for presumption that relies on the fact that Fuhrman is trustworthy,

and at the same time they're saying they're not vouching for him, I

just don't understand that.



So, you know, that's one of the problems that exists here.  This is,

admittedly, a unique situation.



The plaintiffs point out that there are no cases that address this. 

And I would suggest there are no cases that address this, because it's

obvious that all the interests and purposes served by this hearsay

exception are served in a case like this, either personally, where you

have a witness who is subject to so much examination.  So I would say

that there's the same motive and interest in these plaintiffs here as

there was for the prosecution.



You remember, Your Honor, during jury selection, you said, "Basically,

this is a civil murder case."



Well, these men are civil prosecutors. They stand in the same shoes

that Marcia Clark and Chris Darden stood in at that trial.



If they think -- let me put it to you this way:  If Fuhrman took the

stand here, are they telling you that if they would cross-examine him,

that they would take an adverse position with him?  They would do

precisely what the prosecution did.



THE COURT:  Who would be calling him?



MR. LEONARD:  We'd be calling him as an adverse witness, and they'd be

re-directing him.  That's what we intend to do.



THE COURT:  How would you call him as an adverse witness?  Under what

code section?



MR. BAKER:  776.



MR. LEONARD:  776.



THE COURT:  That's adverse party, calling an adverse witness.



MR. LEONARD:  All right, so we call --



THE COURT:  That's not an adverse witness; it's your witness.



MR. LEONARD:  Even if we call him on direct, we elicit not simply

impeachment, which is what they're suggesting, but a number of facts

that demonstrate his opportunity to plant, and certainly his motive to

plant.



THE COURT:  This certainly is an interesting issue.



MR. LEONARD:  I love it.  But it's interesting -- but to me, with all

due respect, too, it's a no-brainer.  I think that.



THE COURT:  We'll see what the Supreme Court says about a no-brainer.



Let me hear from the other side.



MR. GELBLUM:  Your Honor, obviously, the use of cross-examine in the

statute is not collateral or incidental.  That's highlighted by the

fact that a difference in 1291, which is used when you're trying to

introduce prior testimony, if the party who was a party to the prior

action, there's a specific subdivision that expressly allows somebody

to bring in testimony that was offered by that party in the prior

action.



There's no similar provision in 1292.



THE COURT:  Well, I just got defendant's oppositions right now, at the

beginning of this argument.  They cite

Moore_versus_American_United_Life

Insurance_Company,_150_Cal.App.3d_610.  I haven't had a chance to look

at it.



You have knowledge of that case?



MR. GELBLUM:   Yes, Your Honor.  I had a chance to look at it very

late last night.  And it doesn't help the defendant for two reasons: 

Number one, exactly opposite to this case.  In that case, the

plaintiff, the same party offered the testimony in both cases.



Crucial distinction dispositive distinction here.  They're going to

offer testimony against somebody who is not a party to the prior

action, and the other side is offering it.



The flip side is offering it -- the prosecution offering the first

case.  The defense wants to offer it here.  Moore was the opposite

situation where the plaintiff offered it in both cases.  Second, even

though it wasn't an adverse party who cross-examined in the prior

proceeding, it was the worker's compensation appeals court judgment

cross-examined in the prior proceeding.



And that was deemed to be the party who was similar to the defendant

in the second proceeding.



Here, as we pointed out in our papers --



THE COURT:  Why was that?



MR. GELBLUM:  Excuse me?



THE COURT:  Why is that?



MR. GELBLUM:  Why are the parties similar? Because the -- I frankly am

not very familiar with the worker's compensation system; in fact, not

familiar at all.  But the Court did say -- the Court in Moore said

that the worker's compensation appeals court judgment had an interest

in motive similar to the defendant in this case to cross-examine that

witness.



Here, the prosecution offered the testimony in the first case, had

absolutely no motive or interest whatsoever to cross-examine this Mr.

Fuhrman, none.  It's a crucial distinction.  The legislature obviously

by putting in the provision in 1291 saying you can offer testimony

against somebody who offered it in the first proceeding if they were a

party but leaving that provision out of 1292 meant what it said, meant

if you're not a party to the prior proceeding it can only be offered

against you.  If it was offered against the party in the similar

position in the prior proceeding.  I agree that it's a very clear

issue.  And the clear issue is that it cannot be admitted here.



THE COURT:  All right.  I'll take it under submission and take a look

at this case.



THE COURT:  We will take a recess while I read the case.





(A recess was taken.)



(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside

the presence of the jury.)





THE COURT:  I've had the opportunity of reading Moore versus American

United Life Insurance Company, and reading the 1292 evidence code. 

And I am at the present time concerned that this particular point is

one of the more important issues in this case with regard to how a

ruling will affect the course of the case.



Moore_versus_American_United_Life is not a very satisfying case.  The

court in that case -- there's the issue of, in 1292, almost

back-handed way, not exploring with any depth how the worker's

compensation judge's interest is actually similar to or the same as

that of the defendant, and the motivations are similar and the same as

the defendant.



It does not explain the parties that were involved in the worker's

compensation proceeding, other than the fact that American United Life

was not a party.  It doesn't say who all the other parties were.  So

it's not a very definitive case.



On the other hand, plaintiffs have really not cited any cases that

would explain in any detail at all, really, the operation of 1292,

other than citing People_versus_Green, which explains what

cross-examination means, as interpreted by the court.



It would appear that the evidence code is a statute that has its

genesis in a uniform code that has undoubtedly been adopted elsewhere

in this country.  And if counsel are unable to find any cases in this

jurisdiction that deal with that, counsel could at least cite to the

Court some legislative history or legislative analysis and any other

outside jurisdiction's interpretation of that provision, to shed light

on how it would apply to the facts before this Court.



So, for the present time, the Court will preclude the defendant from

making any references to whether Fuhrman's testimony will be received

via his testimony in the criminal trial, or whether he is expected to

testify at all on this.



The defense has some indication from that witness that the witness is

going to appear voluntarily to testify.



The Court will reserve that issue for a future time, and the defendant

is ordered not to make any offer of that testimony to the jury until

it has received permission to do so by the Court.



And in anticipation of that, the Court will order both sides to

prepare further briefings on that issue.



When do you people -- plaintiffs expect to complete the case?



MR. GELBLUM:  When did plaintiff expect to complete our case?



THE COURT:  Well, I want to set up a briefing schedule with regards to

that issue before the defense puts on its case.



MR. GELBLUM:  You want to give a couple weeks for briefing that will

certainly be think longer than that.



MR. BAKER:  I want this issue resolved before I give my opening

statements.  We've been five weeks --



THE COURT:  Counsel, my order is, you're precluded from making any

reference to it at this time.



MR. BAKER:  I move for a mistrial, based on five weeks of Fuhrman

before this jury trial and talking about the jury panel.



THE COURT:  Motion denied.



MR. BAKER:  I move for a stay to take a writ on the issue.



THE COURT:  Denied.



MR. GELBLUM:  We have a couple briefs for briefing, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Fine.



MR. GELBLUM:  Your Honor, does your order also include, based on

whatever's given so far, no mention of the perjury plea, as well?



THE COURT:  That's correct.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, we will brief this afternoon, and can we have

a hearing on it tomorrow.



THE COURT:  I want to give the plaintiff an opportunity to brief it,

also.



MR. BAKER:  I notice the plaintiff can delay and delay.  I've got to

make an opening statement in this case.  And I think when they have

waited 60 days after motions in limine are to be heard, to spring this

on us on the eve of my opening statement that has been prepared for

some time and then say now you've got to change it, I think that's

prejudicial to us.  I think we ought to get the issue resolved.



THE COURT:  The Court will order the briefing to be completed by

November 1 and filed with the Court.



Bring the jury in.





(Jurors resume their respective seats.)





THE COURT:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.



JURORS:  Good morning.



THE COURT:  At this time, we are going to be addressed by the

attorneys with regard to their opening statements.



I want to inform you and advise you that opening statements are not

evidence; they are statements by the attorneys as to what they expect

the evidence is going to show, what their theory of the case is, and

how they hope to prove their case on -- their side of the case.



While what they say to you is not evidence, it is, nevertheless,

important for you to pay close attention to it, because this is one of

the two opportunities they're going to have to address you about this

case, at this time and also at the end of case, after all of the

evidence is in, when, at that time, they'll have the opportunity of

arguing to you and reasoning with you as to what they believe the

evidence did show or failed to show, and how the law should apply to

that state of the evidence, and why you should find in favor of their

clients.



So at this time, we'll hear if the plaintiffs.



You may proceed.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you, Your Honor.



On a June evening, the 12th of June, 1994, Nicole Brown Simpson just

finished putting her ten-year-old daughter, Sydney, and her

six-year-old son, Justin, down to bed.



She filled her bathtub with water.  She lit some candles, began to get

ready to take a bath and relax for the evening.



The phone rang.  It was 9:40 p.m.  Nicole answered.  And it was her

mother, saying that she had left her glasses at the restaurant nearby

in Brentwood, where the family had all celebrated Sydney's dance

recital over dinner, just an hour before.



Nicole's mother asked if Nicole could please pick up her glasses from

the restaurant the next day.  Nicole said, of course, good-bye, and

hung up.



Nicole then called the restaurant and asked to speak to a friendly

young waiter there. Nicole asked this young waiter if he would be kind

enough to drop her mother's glasses off.



The young man obliged and said he would drop the glasses off shortly

after work, on his way to meet his friend in Marina Del Rey.  The

young man's name was Ron Goldman.  He was 25 year old.



With the glasses in hand, Ron walked out of the restaurant, walked the

few minutes to his apartment nearby, to change.  He left the

restaurant at 9:50 p.m.



After Ron changed, he got into his girlfriend's car parked in his

garage, and drove the short distance to Nicole Brown Simpson's home at

875 South Bundy Drive in Brentwood.



Ron parked the car on the side street, walked to the front of Nicole's

condominium, and turned up the walkway to the front gate.  Just past

the front gate were steps leading to Nicole's condominium.



Ronald Goldman never made it past those steps.  It was at that front

gate that Ron spent the last few savage minutes of his life.  It was

there that his brutalized body was found next to Nicole Brown

Simpson's slain body, with her mother's glasses lying next to him on

the ground in an envelope.



Ron Goldman's young life ended because he agreed to do a friend a

favor, only to come upon her rageful killer and his.



He might have run from danger, but he did not.  Ron Goldman died,

ladies and gentlemen, with his eyes open.  And in the last furious

moment of his life, Ron saw through those open eyes the person who

killed his friend Nicole.  And for that reason, he too had to die.



And the last person Ron Goldman saw through his open eyes was the man

who took his young life away:  The man who now sits in this courtroom,

the defendant, Orenthal James Simpson.



Ladies and gentlemen, we will prove to you that Ronald Lyle Goldman

and Nicole Brown Simpson died at the hands of the defendant, Orenthal

Simpson.



Let me again introduce myself and my colleagues to you.



My name is Daniel Petrocelli.  With me are Edward Medvene, Peter

Gelblum, Yvette Molinaro, Thomas Lambert.  We all represent the Estate

of Ronald Goldman and Ronald's father, Fred, in this, his last fight

for justice for his son.



Mr. Brewer represents Ronald's mother, Sharon Rufo, and Mr. Kelly

represents the Estate of Nicole Brown Simpson.  And they will each

talk to you after me.



In this trial, we will present to you an extraordinary amount of

evidence undeniably pointing to O.J. Simpson as the person who killed

Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson on the evening of June 12.



This evidence includes:



Mr. Simpson's blood leaving the scene of the murder at Nicole's

condominium;



His blood dripping to the ground from the fingers of his left hand;



Mr. Simpson's blood on the glove he wore when he killed Ron and

Nicole;



Mr. Simpson's blood in his car that he used to drive from Bundy to his

home at Rockingham, five minutes away;



Mr. Simpson's blood on the driveway of his home;



Mr. Simpson's blood inside his home;



Ron's blood in Mr. Simpson's car;



Nicole's blood in Mr. Simpson's car;



Ron's blood on Mr. Simpson's glove;



Nicole's blood on Mr. Simpson's glove;



Nicole's blood on the socks in Mr. Simpson's bedroom;



Mr. Simpson's own blood on his socks;



Mr. Simpson's size 12 shoe prints in the blood of Nicole, leaving the

scene of the murder, exiting towards the back of the condominium;



Hair matching Mr. Simpson's hair in the knit cap he left behind at the

scene of the murders;



Hair matching Mr. Simpson's hair on Ronald Goldman's shirt;



Strands of Nicole's hair and Ron's hair on the glove Mr. Simpson

dropped on the side of his house, trying to get onto his property so

no one would see him;



Carpet fibers, rare carpet fibers from Mr. Simpson's Bronco found in

the knit cap that he left at the scene of the murders;



Matching blue-black cotton fibers found on Ronald Goldman's shirt;



The glove at Rockingham and Mr. Simpson's socks in the bedroom, tying

all three together.



Cuts and bruises to Mr. Simpson's left hand during his brief but

violent attacks on Ron and Nicole;



Cuts to this day that Mr. Simpson cannot and will not explain.



We will prove to you that Mr. Simpson has no alibi during the time

when the murders were committed.



He cannot identify a single person who can account for his whereabouts

during the time of the murders.  Not one person will take this stand

and testify that he or she was with Mr. Simpson or spoke to Mr.

Simpson during the time of these murders.



We will prove how Ron and Nicole were killed quickly and savagely. 

They were defenseless against a man so large, powerful, strong, armed

with a six-inch knife, and in a total state of rage.



Nicole had no chance to fight, and died within moments of the gaping

cut to her throat.



Ron tried to fight, but trapped in a small, caged area, he was cut

down swiftly.



We will prove to you that Mr. Simpson committed the murders and sped

back home, just in time to drive to the airport and catch a plane that

he desperately needed to catch to have any hope of an alibi.  In his

extreme panic and hurry, Mr. Simpson left behind a trail of

incriminating evidence, starting right at the murder scene and leading

right into his bedroom.



We will prove to you that Mr. Simpson was embroiled in a deeply

emotional conflict with Nicole Brown Simpson after she had just ended

any last attempt at reconciliation between the two.



We will describe to you the rejection and pain this caused Mr. Simpson

in detail, the build-up of tension, emotion, and anger between Mr.

Simpson and Nicole in the last weeks and days leading up to her

murder.



We will prove that Mr. Simpson killed Ronald Goldman because he would

have been a witness to the rageful attack and murder of Nicole, a

witness who would have testified in this trial, a young man who

simply, and frankly, happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong

time.



We will prove to you how Mr. Simpson's own words and actions following

the murders revealed then, and still reveal today, his guilt for these

deaths.



You will hear Mr. Simpson on tape, just hours after the murder, unable

to explain his actions the night before, during the time of the

murders.



You will hear him make very incriminating statements, statements that

he will now try to contradict or vary.



We will tell you about Mr. Simpson's flight from the police when they

came to arrest him and his apparent thoughts of taking his life,

thoughts that are consistent, ladies and gentlemen, only with a person

who had killed, and that are totally inconsistent with a man whose

children had just lost their mother at the hands of a stranger.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object. This is argument, not

opening statement.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.



You will hear how this man came back to Los Angeles on the day after

the murders and huddled with lawyers, rather than huddle with his

children.



MR. BAKER:  I object, Your Honor.  That's argument.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. PETROCELLI:  We will reveal to you lies and deceptions in the

sworn testimony of Mr. Simpson when questioned under oath for the

first time.



MR. BAKER:  I'll object again, Your Honor. That's argument.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, this is what we will introduce.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  We will reveal to you lies and deceptions in the

sworn testimony of Mr. Simpson when questioned under oath for the

first time about his involvement in these murders.



We will prove to you that when asked all the important questions about

his involvement in these murders, O.J. Simpson could not, would not,

and did not tell the truth.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'll object again. This is argument.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will show that

when faced with the truth of his blood, his hair, his clothing, his

gloves, his shoes, his Bronco, his rage, his motive, his words, and

his actions, you will see how Mr. Simpson in this trial will resort to

theories of police conspiracies, frame-ups, cover-ups and

incompetence, to try to explain away all of the incriminating

evidence.



And we will show you that there is not one ounce of evidence, not one

ounce of proof, and not one ounce of truth to any of these things.



We will demonstrate to you that far from these theories born out of

desperation, there is only one.



MR. BAKER:  I object.  Again, this is simply argument theory.  "Born

out of desperation" is argument.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. PETROCELLI:  We will prove to you, ladies and gentlemen, that

there is only one real and true and honest answer why all the evidence

in this case points to O.J. Simpson.  And that is because he is the

person who killed Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson.



Now, let me review this evidence with you in detail.



I'd like to start with talking about the two victims in the case,

Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson.



Your Honor, may I?  (Indicating to photos)



(Counsel displays photos.)



MR. PETROCELLI:  Ron grew up in Illinois.  His parents got divorced

when he was a young boy.  He and his little sister, Kimberly, went to

live with their father, Fred.



When Ron was 18, Ron, Kim, Fred, and Fred's new wife, Patty, all moved

to Agoura, California.  Ron took to southern California like a fish to

water.  He excelled at tennis; he loved to play softball.  He got a

job taking care of cerebral palsy patients.  He was the only person at

Pierce College who applied for a job taking care of -- helping to take

care of inner-city kids and helping to turn their lives around.



He was 20 years old when he moved out of his family's home, eventually

winding up in Brentwood, where he loved the friendly atmosphere.  He

was a happy, outgoing, always smiling, handsome young man, who made

friends quickly.



He worked in odd jobs here and there to support himself.  He did a

little modeling, and he dreamed of opening up a restaurant.  And in

February of 1994, to pay the bills, he got a job at a trendy Italian

restaurant called Mezzaluna, as a waiter.



He was single.  He had a girlfriend; he had lots of friends, he loved

his family; he was one of those people who was always there for

others, and ultimately died doing that.  He was a young man, barely 25

years old, with his whole life ahead of him.



Nicole Brown Simpson was 35 years old when she was killed.



She was recently divorced from her ex-husband, O.J. Simpson.  She had

her two children living with her, Sydney and Justin.



She was a full-time mother; she was a devoted mother.  She lived in a

condominium in Brentwood.  She met Mr. Simpson at the age of 18, right

after high school.  And from that moment, they were together.  They

lived together; they were married in 1985, and they had two children.



The evidence will show that they had a very tempestuous relationship,

passionate at times, violent at other times, one of those

relationships where they couldn't live with each other and they

couldn't live without each other.



Nicole left Mr. Simpson in January of 1992, filed for divorce, and

moved into her own apartment with her children.



A year or so later, the divorce was final.  After the divorce was

final, she and Mr. Simpson decided to make another go of it, and they

decided they would try and reconcile, not living together, but they

would start dating.



This was about spring of 1993.  They then spent the next year, till

about three weeks before her death, trying to make this reconciliation

work.



Three weeks before she was killed, Nicole decided it was not working,

and she ended it. One month later, she was dead.



You will hear a lot more about the relationship and what was going on

between Mr. Simpson and Nicole from Mr. Kelly.



O.J. Simpson, the defendant, of course, was a celebrity football star,

film actor, and sports caster, a man who grew up poor and became rich

and famous, and charismatic and a charming man, but in the eyes of the

law, a man no different from anyone else.



Now, I'd like to begin the evidence proving the murders by talking

about the time when Ron and Nicole were killed.  And the reason for

doing this is simple:  After identifying when the murders occurred, we

will show you that Mr. Simpson had the opportunity and the time to

commit the murders.



We will show you that during this time, he has no alibi.



Nicole, as I said earlier, had gone to a dance recital for her

daughter, went to dinner at Mezzaluna, left at around 8:30, got some

ice cream with the kids, and got home before 9:00, and she put the

kids to bed.



She received a phone call from her mom at 9:40, asking about the

glasses.  Her mom asked Nicole to pick them up for her the next day. 

Instead of picking them up the next day, Nicole called Mezzaluna,

spoke to the manager, Karen Crawford, then asked to speak to Ron

Goldman, and asked Mr. Goldman to bring them over.



Ron left Mezzaluna at 9:50 to go home first, change, and then deliver

the glasses.



Before Ron left, he spoke to his friend at the restaurant who worked

there, who was tending bar that night, Stewart Tanner, and he made

plans with Stewart Tanner and another person to meet together after

work in Marina Del Rey, a place called Baja Cantina.



Ron then left the restaurant, walked a few minutes to his home, went

up to his apartment, and we know that he changed out of his waiter's

clothes, and we know that he put on a different set of clothes, a pair

of jeans, a shirt, and some new shoes.



It took Ron about five minutes to get to his apartment.  Ron

apparently did not shave, from the autopsy pictures that we will show.



We do not know if he showered.  He left his home and drove his

girlfriend's car a short distance to Nicole's condominium.  He parked

on Dorothy Street, around the corner.



He walked up to Nicole's front gate. The time was sometime after ten

o'clock p.m.



Now, let's fast-forward.  At 10:50 p.m., 50 minutes later or so, at

the very latest, a man named Louis Karpf, who lived right next door to

Nicole's condominium, walked out to his mailbox on Bundy to pick up

his mail, having just gotten back from the airport.



He saw Nicole's dog, a very large Japanese attack dog called an Akita,

out in the street, barking.  In fact, the dog frightened Mr. Karpf, so

he retreated back up onto his property. Then, when the dog moved away,

Mr. Karpf continued to his mailbox an got his mail.  The time was

about 10:50 p.m., no later than that.



A few minutes later, another man is walking his dog from his apartment

up the street and around the corner.  His name is Steven Schwab.  You

will hear these folks testify.  They're just citizens living in

Brentwood.  They have no axe to grind.



Mr. Schwab came by and saw the dog, Nicole's Akita, out in the middle

of street on Bundy and Gorham I'll show you in a few minutes, you can

see the geography.  And he saw that the dog had blood had blood on his

paws, on his legs.  The time was 10:55 p.m.  Mr. Schwab, with his own

dog, saw the dog was wandering aimlessly and barking in a very

agitated way.  And he decided to take the dog and go home, try to find

the owner, call up the animal shelter.



He got home, wasn't having any luck, and he asked a neighbor who lived

in the same complex, a fellow by the name of Sukru Boztepe, who will

also come here and testify, if he could take care of the dog.



Mr. Boztepe said sure, and he and his wife started to tend to the dog.

 And then they decided to take the dog out for a walk because the dog

was agitated, and maybe they could find the dog's owner.



They then took the dog for a walk, and the dog pulled Mr. Boztepe on a

leash which Mr. Schwab gave Mr. Boztepe.  The dog pulled Mr. Boztepe

in the direction of Nicole Brown Simpson's condominium.  In fact,

right to the sidewalk where the walkway led up to her body.



And the dog stopped at that point, and the dog looked down the

walkway.  And Mr. Boztepe saw that the dog was staring.  And he then

looked, and it was extremely dark, even though he was right in front

of the sidewalk there.  He will testify that he did not see anything

until the dog turned his head toward the bodies, and then Mr. Boztepe

looked and saw Nicole's body laying at the bottom of the stairs in a

pool of blood.



Mr. Boztepe then quickly raced across the street and knocked on

neighbors' doors to get somebody to call the police.  And eventually,

the police were summoned.  And they arrived at around 12:00, a little

after midnight.



So we know that these murders occurred, from the evidence that we will

present, sometime after 10:00, when Ron left his apartment, and

sometime before 10:, 50 when Mr. Karpf saw Nicole's dog out in the

street.  And five minutes later, Mr. Schwab saw it with blood.



Between 10:00 and 10:50 -- we can even narrow it further than that,

ladies and gentlemen. There's another man who will come here and

testify. His name is Robert Heidstra.  Mr. Heidstra is a dog lover. 

He has a couple of dogs.  He walks them several times a day, takes the

same route, knows every inch of the way.



He walked his dog on this evening, two of his dogs, and they were

older.  He Left his house sometime after ten o'clock, closer to 10:15,

and he walked around the corner at this point.  I think I will show

you a map.



(Counsel displays map.)



THE COURT:  Can you all see this?



JURORS:  Yes.



THE COURT:  Here's Nicole's condominium; here's 875 South Bundy right

here.



Mr. Heidstra lived on Dorothy.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, pardon me.  Can you put it up next to those

pictures so that we can all see it?



MR. PETROCELLI:  I don't know if it will stand up here, but we'll try.



THE COURT:  Perhaps you can move the easel over.



MR. PETROCELLI:  That's better.



MR. BAKER:  Could you just put it up the next level; then everybody,

even in the back, can see it.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Ah, fine.



MR. BAKER:  Thank you.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Okay.  Mr. Heidstra lived right here.  He left his

apartment around 10:15 and took this route, walking his dogs.



This is Nicole's condominium; this is Bundy.



This is an alleyway going from Bundy to Dorothy.



About 10:30, 10:35, Mr. Heidstra reached this point with his two dogs,

and he heard a very loud barking.  He immediately recognized the dog

to be Nicole's dog, because he was familiar with Nicole's dog, having

walked by her condominium many times and seen the dog.



The dog was barking in a very agitated way, and Mr. Heidstra was

frightened that his animals might confront Nicole's dog, so he decided

not to walk in front of Nicole's condominium, but to take a detour. 

And he went this way down the alleyway.



So instead of going this way, he cut down this alleyway so he wouldn't

have to go by the dog.



When he got to this point of the alleyway, directly opposite Nicole's

condominium, Mr. Heidstra will testify that he heard a man, young male

voice, yell, "Hey, Hey, Hey."  Then he heard a deeper voice respond. 

Then he heard the other man yell, "Hey, Hey."  And then he heard a

clanging of a gate.



When he heard those sounds, he will testify that it was approximately

10:35 to 10:40 right here.



He then continued his walk across the alleyway until he reached

Dorothy, and he stopped and paused.



There's a big streetlight illuminating Dorothy and Bundy right here.



He looked down the street while his dogs were doing their business,

and he then saw a car pull up to this light, or to this stop sign, I

should say, and make a right turn, and he got a crystal clear view of

that car as it approached and turned right.  That car, he will

testify, was a white utility-type or jeep-like automobile with tinted

windows, like a Ford Bronco.



The time was 10:40 to 10:45.  At the latest, 1045.



We will prove through Mr. Heidstra testimony and other testimony, that

Mr. Hide take heard Ronald Goldman being confronted and attacked by

the defendant.



The time was 10:35 to 10:40, in that range, approximately.



Now, where was Mr. Simpson at that time? That's the next question. 

Here's what we know:



Mr. Simpson had driven alone to his daughter's dance recital earlier

on Sunday, about five o'clock.  He was not invited to dinner with the

Brown family and his children.  And he went home alone after the

recital.  They all went out to dinner at Mezzaluna Restaurant.



Mr. Simpson got to his house on Rockingham about 6:30 or seven

o'clock.  He was home alone that evening, ladies and gentlemen. 

Nobody else was in the house.  His daughter, Arnel, was out for the

evening, and she would not return until about 1:00, 1:30 in the

morning.



Mr. Simpson had a house guest living in a guest room on the side of

the house.  His name was Kato Kaelin.  He was there in the room

passing time at 9:11 p.m., and we know this time exactly because

there's a phone record.  Mr. Kaelin is on the phone long-distance to

San Diego to a friend, when Mr. Simpson comes to his door and knocks

on it. Mr. Kaelin gets off the phone.  We know it's 9:11 p.m. from the

phone record.



Mr. Simpson told Mr. Kaelin that he needed change to go to the

airport, to tip the skycap. He said he was going to the airport and

needed change to tip the skycap.



Mr. Kaelin said all he had was a 20, and he gave it to Mr. Simpson.



Mr. Simpson then said that he was going out to eat, to get a burger.



Mr. Kaelin then asked Mr. Simpson if he could go along, and Mr.

Simpson mumbled, "okay."



They then got in the car.  Mr. Simpson had two automobiles:  He had a

Ford Bronco and he had a Bentley.  He got into the Bentley that was

parked in his driveway, and they drove to McDonald's.



It was sometime after 9:11 p.m.



They got to McDonald's, ordered the food. Mr. Simpson ate his

hamburger in the car very quickly, and drove back.



He got back to the house around 9:30, 9:35 at the very latest.  How do

we know that? Mr. Kaelin was not invited to eat his food with Mr.

Simpson; Mr. Simpson already ate his food in the car.  Mr. Kaelin got

his food and walked around to the back of the house and went into his

room and picked up the phone and made another long-distance phone call

to the same guy in San Diego.  And that call is at 9:37 p.m.  So we

know that Mr. Simpson and Mr. Kaelin are back by then.



So we can estimate it took a couple of minutes to get to the room from

where he got out of the car.  So basically, Mr. Simpson is back at

Rockingham by 9:35 p.m.



Now, at 9:35 p.m. until 10:55 p.m., Mr. Simpson's whereabouts cannot

be corroborated by anybody.



9:35 p.m. to 10:55 p.m., Mr. Kaelin is the last person to see Mr.

Simpson at 9:35. Mr. Simpson was not seen by anybody alive, anybody

who will testify, until 10:55.



One hour and 20 minutes unaccounted for.



It was during this one hour and 20 minutes that the murders occurred.



Now, what happened at 10:55?  Allan Park is a limousine driver who

will come here and he will testify.  He had never driven before for

Mr. Simpson. Mr. Simpson's regular driver was not available on this

evening to take Mr. Simpson to the airport for a red-eye flight. 

Normally the driver would be there around quarter to 11:00 to get Mr.

Simpson to the airport.



Mr. Simpson had no idea that his normal driver was not going to show

up, and that this new person was going to show up.



Well Mr. Park had never picked up Mr. Simpson before, and he was a bit

nervous, and he wanted to be on time.  He left his home at Torrance at

9:45 p.m. to get to Brentwood -- to Rockingham, 360 North Rockingham,

where Mr. Simpson lives, in plenty of time to get Mr. Simpson to the

airport.



(Counsel displays diagram of Rockingham Avenue.)



MR. PETROCELLI:  Mr. Park comes driving -- this is Mr. Simpson's

property at 360 North Rockingham. You have Ashford Street and you have

Rockingham Avenue.  And there are two driveways to this property. You

have this driveway on Ashford Street, and you have this driveway on

Rockingham.  And there are gates here where you can be buzzed in, and

the gates open and come in.  There's only one intercom, this one at

Ashford Street.



If you want to get into the house and you pull up to the gate on

Ashford, you have to pick up this phone that's right outside the gate,

and you call in and it rings on the telephone inside Mr. Simpson's

house on any number of phones.  And there's even a little light that

lights up saying gate.  So anybody inside knows it's the gate.  They

can then press a button and then the gate opens automatically; the

person comes in, and the gate -- press another button, and the gate

closes.  And that's how people routinely are let into the property.



And Mr. Park was given instructions by his boss, a man named Dale St.

John, to come to the property this way at this certain time, and then

buzz, and he'll be let in.



Again to be early, he drove up Rockingham, and he wasn't quite sure,

you know, which house was Mr. Simpson's, so he stopped and looked when

he got to this area, and he saw on the curb here, the numbers 360. 

Now, that told him that this was Mr. Simpson's house, 360 North

Rockingham.



He stopped and paused, looking out of the driver's side window, and

visibly saw the curb and the numbers.  And he did not see, and he will

so testify, any cars parked there at that time.  He did not see the

Bronco or any other automobile near the numbers or anywhere along this

curb.  No cars were parked.



Now, what time was it when Allan Park drove up?  According to him, it

was 10:20 p.m.



Now, understand something:  Mr. Simpson will testify that he was home

at 10:20 p.m., and he will further testify that his car was right

here, where he claims he parked it earlier in the evening.



But Allan Park will destroy that alibi.



MR. BAKER:  I object.  That's argument.  I object, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  I'm going to ask you to save your argument for --



MR. PETROCELLI:  Okay.



THE COURT:  -- for closing argument.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Allan Park will testify that when he drove up at

10:20, there was no car there.



Furthermore, Park pulls around the corner at Ashford -- it's about

10:25 -- stops the car right here, realizes it's too early to go

inside and call Mr. Simpson, so he smokes a cigarette.  He then gets

ready to pull into that driveway and phone in.  But instead of doing

that, he decides just to be sure, he makes one more pass around to

Rockingham, to make sure this is the right address, and he checks the

curb again.  And it's 10:40 at this point in time, and there's no

Bronco there.  And he sees the address, 360 North Rockingham.



Again, it's 10:40 p.m. or so.  He pulls back around, comes back in,

pulls into the driveway, gets out of the car, and then picks up the

phone and calls in.



Okay.



No one answers the phone.  It rings and it rings, as he will testify,

two, three, four times. Nobody answers the phone.  It's 10:40 p.m.  He

then tried paging his boss, Dale St. John, to find out what -- you

know, what's going on:  What should I do? He didn't get an answer from

his boss; he couldn't get through.



It's now about 10:45 p.m.  Finally, well, what he did here is, he got

back out of the car, as he will testify and he rang the intercom

again: Second time he rang, another two, three, four times it rings. 

No answer.  Then gets back in the car, starts calling some people up. 

Finally gets ahold of this guy, Dale St. John, and he makes a call to

him from the cell phone in the car, so there's a cell phone record

that establishes definitively when Mr. Park got in touch with his

boss.  The time was 10:52.  Okay. 10:52 and 17 seconds.  That call

lasted until 10:55 and 17 seconds.  So we have that time, for sure,

pinned down.



So Park will testify he's in the car, is talking to St. John at 10:52:

 What should I do?  He's not home.



Near the end of that call, he sees a man approach.  He -- you see,

he's in the car.  He has a -- he will testify that he has a clear

view.  These trees do not stick out in the driveway.  And you'll see

it in the photographs:  He has a clear view here. Clear view.  He's

looking straight ahead.  His front bumper is touching up against the

gate.  He's got his parking lights on, his headlights off, and he's

looking straight ahead as he's talking to his boss, and he can see the

front entrance way to Mr. Simpson's house.



All of a sudden, he sees a man approach here, a younger man, a male

with blond hair.  He didn't know who this guy is.  And he indicated to

his boss that he saw somebody.  Continues to talk to his boss.  And

then a moment later, he sees another person who he describes as large,

wearing dark clothing, six feet, 200 pounds, walking in this

direction, kind of at a brisk clip.  Okay.  Sees a guy -- first he

sees this guy, then a moment later, he sees this other person.



He then gets off the phone with his boss, he gets out of the car, and

he rings Mr. Simpson's house again, figuring he's home.  And then Mr.

Simpson picks up for the first time, after he saw the figure heading

towards the front door.



He will also testify that once the figure headed towards the front

door, he saw some lighting on.  He gets out of the car, and a moment

later, somebody answers the phone, and it's Mr. Simpson.  And he

recognized his voice.



So we can tell from Allan Park's records, his phone records, that he

saw this person entering the house at around 10:55 p.m.



Mr. Simpson will admit that that was him entering the house at 10:55

p.m.



So we know Mr. Simpson's whereabouts cannot be tracked, beginning at

10:55, back to 9:35. That's the hour and 20 minutes that he's not

accounted for.



Now, what will Mr. Simpson say about what he was doing during this

time?



You will -- you will hear him say that he was home the entire time.



However, there's a cell phone record that shows a call that he made

from his cell phone at 10:03 p.m. to his friend, Paula Barbieri, tying

to track her down.  We know he called her, but didn't make contact at

10:03 p.m.



Mr. Simpson, the next day when he came back from Chicago, told the

police when he gave a statement, that the very last thing he did

before he went off to Chicago, when the limousine was waiting for him,

was go out to the Bronco to get his cell phone.  So Mr. Simpson

admitted to the police that his cell phone was in the Bronco when he

left for the airport, which was after eleven o'clock.  So we know that

Mr. Simpson had to have been in his Bronco at 10:03 when he made that

call.



Mr. Simpson will say that he was packing and rushing around during

this time frame.  We will show that his trip was for only one day. 

Mr. Simpson will say that he was lying on his bed, reading a book,

starting to nod off.  We will show you that he was taking a red-eye,

where people usually sleep on the flight.



Mr. Simpson will say that he was chipping golf balls.  We will show

you that it was nighttime. No one had seen him chip golf balls at

nighttime.



You will hear him say that he took his dog for a walk around the block

during this one-hour-and-20-minute period.



He can produce no witness who saw him taking that dog for a walk.



You will hear that he was home, up in his room, but he did not answer

two separate calls Alan Park, starting at 10:40, and then again at

10:45.



Mr. Park said when Mr. Simpson picked up the phone, Mr. Simpson said

he had overslept, but he was taking a red-eye.



You will hear Mr. Simpson say a lot of other things about where he was

during that time.  And we will have a lot more to say when we

cross-examine him.  But the important thing to remember is this: About

this one hour and 20 minutes, there isn't anybody who can account for

his whereabouts.  Nobody.



Now, there's one other thing I'd like to mention before I move on to

the next subject.



Mr. Kaelin was seen, as I told you, walking out of his room, onto the

property, was seen by Mr. Park around 10:45 p.m.  The man with the

blond hair that Mr. Park saw and did not recognize was Kato Kaelin.



Now, why was Kaelin out there at 10:54 p.m., walking around about

three or four minutes earlier?  Around 10:50, Mr. Kaelin heard loud

noises against the wall of his room.  He was lying against the wall on

his bed, talking on the telephone, and he heard some loud noises.  And

it shook the wall, and it even moved the picture; that's what he will

testify. He thought there was an earthquake.



He asked the person on the phone, was there an earthquake, talking to

a woman named Rachel Ferrara who lived locally.  And she said she

didn't feel an earthquake.



He was a little frightened.  He got off the phone; he got a light, a

little, small penlight, and he walked outside to go investigate where

those sounds came from and what had happened.



And I'll have to show you when we get another chart during the course

of his testimony, but he walked out of his room, which is back here,

came down this way, walks across here, and then went down to the side

of the garage to this point here, where he heard the noise.



You will hear Mr. Kaelin's testimony about going back to that side of

the house and what he saw.



What you will not hear, however, from the defense in this case will be

one shred of evidence either from Mr. Simpson or from any other

witness --



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object. That's argument that you

will not hear from us.



MR. PETROCELLI:  There will be no evidence in this case presented by

the defense as to what caused that noise that Kato Kaelin heard.



We will prove that was caused by Mr. Simpson returning to his property

by going on the side of the house, to avoid being detected by Alan

Park, who is waiting out on the street.



But you won't hear any other evidence as to what caused those noises.



THE COURT:  We'll take a ten-minute recess.



Don't talk about the case; don't form or express any opinions, ladies

and gentlemen.





(Recess.)



(Jurors resume their respective seats.)





THE COURT:  You may resume.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you, Your Honor.  What I'd like to do now,

ladies and gentlemen, is review for you the physical evidence found

when the murders were investigated and then I would like to show you

how we will prove that it links the defendant, Mr. Simpson, to the

murders.



Evidence was found, virtually all the evidence was found in three

locations.  Nicole's condominium, 875 South Bundy, Mr. Simpson's

Bronco, and Mr. Simpson's home, 360 north Rockingham.



Let me start with the physical evidence at Bundy.  I'm not going to

show you photographs now. I'm going to let the witnesses show you

photographs.



The bodies of the victims, of course, were found at 875 south Bundy. 

There's a walkway up to the steps and Nicole's body was found at the

bottom of the first step in the pool of blood.



She was still wearing the black dress she had worn for her recital. 

She was bear foot.  She had a watch on and she had rings on her

fingers.



Ron was found slumped against a tree a few feet from Nicole's body in

a small caged-in area. And I say caged, you'll see photos of it, it's

caged because there's a fence that goes around this little dirt area

and there's a big street in the middle which sort of bisects this

area.  And Mr. Goldman's body was found against the tree and it's a

very small area. And it's next to the stairs where Nicole's body was

found.



Ron had a pager and the pager was found lying on the ground next to

him.  Ron's keys to the car were found lying on the ground next to

him.



The envelope with Judy Brown's glasses was found lying on the ground

next to him, obviously indicating that Ron had never got past the

stairs with the envelope.



In between Ron and Nicole's body, -- bodies, there was a single

leather glove on the ground.  There was also a knit cap, a dark knit

cap, starting from where Nicole's body was and leading to the back of

the condominiums, a long walkway that goes to the back where there's a

gate.



There with shoe prints walking towards the back in blood, bloody shoe

prints.  There were also some shoe prints in between Nicole's body and

Ron's body.  All of these shoe prints are all of the same size, size

12.



Next to the shoe prints going towards the back of the condominium were

drops of blood.  To the left of the shoe prints, as though somebody

had cut themselves from the left hand or the left fingers, droplets of

blood, four or five.



At the end of the walkway, there's a gate that goes out to the back of

the house, then there were three blood stains found on this gate.



Later examination of some of this evidence showed that Ron's shirt had

some fibers on it and had some hair on it.  The knit cap was found to

have some hair on it.  There were also fibers found in the knit cap.



That's kind of the general picture of what we saw at Bundy.



By the way, while we're at Bundy, the door to Nicole's home, you go up

the steps, you walk a little past and there's a door, front door to

her condo.  The door was open.  The lights were on inside. There were

candles.  There was a bathroom upstairs that she used near her

bedroom.  It had water in it and her children were sleeping in the

bed.



None of Nicole's jewelry that she had on was taken.  None of Ron's

possessions was taken. Nothing inside the house was disturbed or

removed. The house was not ransacked.  The children were left unharmed

in their bed.  Expensive automobiles in the garage, one being a

Ferrari, they were not taken. Everything was left intact.  Obviously

indicating that there was no robbery here.  No breaking and entry, no

burglary, no evidence of that will be presented in this case.



Nor will there be any evidence presented that this was -- there was

any sexual assault upon Nicole.  Her clothes were not torn, nothing

was ripped.  There will be no evidence of that.



We will prove from these facts that Nicole was the target of these

murders.  These murders did not occur in a convenience store or an ATM

machine.  They occurred at her home.  We will prove that Ron Goldman

-- nobody knew Ron Goldman was going to be at Nicole's home except Ron

Goldman.  Nicole and Karen Crawford at Mezzaluna, when Ron left at

9:50, he told Karen he was going to drop these glasses off and he got

them from Karen.



And then a half hour later or so, he's at Nicole's condo and he's

killed.  Nobody -- there's no evidence that will be presented that

anybody knew Ron Goldman was going to Nicole's condominium.  He went

there at the last minute unexpectedly.



Now, the physical evidence in the Bronco, let me talk about that.  The

Bronco was found parked on -- on Rockingham when the police arrived in

the wee hours of the morning.



It was locked and it was parked right near this curb where it said 360

and you'll see photos of that.  Right where Alan Park drove by and did

not see a Bronco.



It had blood, little stain of blood on the outside of the door near

the door handle, driver side door and it also had some stains of blood

down at the bottom of the door.  And officers will testify, detectives

will testify, detective Lange, Detective Phillips, Detective

Vannatter, Detective Gonzalez and others that they could see inside

the Bronco through the windows and saw blood inside as well.



When the Bronco was towed the next day to the LA print shed and then

opened the following day, it had to be opened with a slim jim.  Blood

was found in various places inside on the steering wheel, on the

instrument panel, on the seats, on the center console, and on the

driver side door panel, in the area where there's a little well, where

you open up the door to get out.  The handle is as though one <SW> a

left hand or left finger was bleeding when they tried to open up the

handle to get out, right in that area, there was blood found.  There

was also blood found on the carpet of the driver side in the shape of

a shoe print.



Now, at Rockingham itself, 360 north Rockingham, there is evidence

found both outside the house and inside the house.



Outside the house, there were blood drops outside the Bronco on the

ground and there were blood drops then up the driveway.  There were

blood drops found inside the foyer of Mr. Simpson's house. When you

open up the front door, there's low a foyer there were blood drops

found on that floor.



There were blood drops found in Mr. Simpson's bathroom on the floor. 

There were socks found, a pair of dark socks on a rug next to Mr.

Simpson's bed in his bedroom.  Later examination of these socks showed

there were blood stains, discoloration not easily visible to the naked

eye.



Outside the house, on the side of the house were Kato Kaelin heard the

notices, there was a leather glove found for the right hand.  The

leather glove found at Bundy was for the left hand.  This leather

glove matched the glove at Bundy, one was right, one was left, both

brown leather gloves.



When this glove was examined, it was loaded with evidence.  It had

blood stains on it.  It had strands of hair and it had fiber on it.



Now, let me explain to you how this evidence that I just described

briefly to you ties into Mr. Simpson, how it identifies him.



First of all, I'd like to talk for a bit about the wound to the

victims, and this is obviously a difficult area to discuss and you

will be seeing some photographs, pictures during the course of the

trial.



Both victims died of knife wounds.  We will call to the witness stand,

one of the nation's most renowned pathologist.  His name is Dr. Werner

Spitz who we hired to independently examine the photographs, autopsy

reports and make some conclusions about the autopsies done on Ron and

Nicole in the nature of the wounds.  I should say, the person who

performed the autopsy, Dr. Irwin Golden, is on the witness list for

this case.  He is also available to testify if needed.



Now, a quick word of Dr. Spitz, he is one of the -- you will here he

is one of the most renowned pathologists, the author of numerous

authoritative works.  He served on various committees, including

committees investigating the assassination of John F. Kennedy, Martin

Luther King, Junior.



Now, Dr. Spitz, after reviewing the materials, he will testify when

he's called that Nicole had some superficial defensive type wound,

very superficial, not very many.  She had stab wounds to the neck, and

she had a gapping slash across her throat.  This last wound was so

deep in such -- and such a devastating cut that it almost, the blade

almost hit her spinal cord.  It was this last wound that caused her

death, caused her to bleed out massively and she died moments later.



Ronald Goldman, all of his wound were also knife wounds.  He had one

wound that bled out onto his pants, a wound to his leg.  He had a

wound to the neck that severed a vein.  He had two wounds to his chest

below his armpits, and he had a deep wound in the abdominal area. 

Those are the basic wounds that he had.



Dr. Spitz will testify that all of the wounds to Ron and Nicole were

consistent with one knife.  And one assailant.



The blood testing done in this case also shows that there is a drop of

blood on Ron Goldman's boot, on the bottom of the boot which later

testing revealed to be a mixture of Ron's blood and Nicole's blood. 

And this blood drop will show that one knife was used on both victims,

hence transferring one blood to the other.



As you will see from the photos of the crime scene, Nicole was kill at

one area at the bottom of the stairs and Ron was killed at a separate

area next to the stairs.  And there are some bloody foot prints

between Ron's body and Nicole's body and we will offer this evidence

to prove Ron and Nicole were killed in sequence, meaning take they

were not confronted and killed together at the same time.



In addition, the evidence will show that there is only one set of foot

prints throughout the whole crime scene, all size 12.  There will be

no evidence presented that anybody else that evening left any foot

prints.  And there will be no evidence presented that anybody else was

involved that night in these murders.



The evidence that we will present will show that both Ron and Nicole

struggled very briefly before they were killed.  There was no blood on

Nicole's feet.  She was found laying down in a pool of blood and there

was no blood on her feet.  None of her blood on her feet, meaning that

she was already down when she was cut across the neck and she bled

out.



When she was cut on the neck, Dr. Spitz will testify that she lived no

longer than about 15 seconds or so from that point.



Dr. Spitz will explain that Ron Goldman did try to fight valiantly,

but he too was killed quickly.  He was pinned in this small caged

area, taken by surprise and he did not have room to maneuver, to

defend himself let alone fight back.



His area is very small.  And if you try to throw a punch or get your

arms up, there's not much you could do except ward off the knife blows

that were being delivered one after the other and that is why we see

cuts on Ron's hands.



One of the early wounds to Ron, as Dr. Spitz will testify, severed the

aorta in the abdominal area, the abdominal cavity.  This caused an

instant loss of blood pressure, and an immense internal bleeding to

the surrounding tissue.  After this wound, Ron was rendered totally

defenseless.



And Dr. Spitz will testify that he could have struggled about 60

seconds before collapsing to his death.  It was during this struggle

with Ron most likely when the glove came off and the hat came off.



Also, Mr. Simpson sustained injuries to his left hand in the nature of

cuts and gouges.  Dr. Spitz has examined photographs of these injuries

and he will testify that these are very likely, gouges caused by the

finger nails of either Ron or Nicole digging into Mr. Simpson's hand

in order to try to get free.



The evidence will also show that, as I said before, Nicole bled

outward after she was already down on the ground incapacitated, and

Ron bled largely internally.  Therefore, the evidence does not suggest

that Mr. Simpson would have been drenched with blood nor does it

suggest that he would have bruises and marks all over his body.



Now, let me tie in something that we talked about earlier.  We were

talking about the time. Okay.  And Mr. Heidstra will testify that he

heard a voice of a man say hey, hey, hey around 10:35 or so.



Now, we will show that the struggle with Mr. Goldman was brief.  The

struggle with Nicole was even briefer.  That in a matter of minutes,

both were killed.  Mr. Heidstra heard hey, hey, hey around 10:35 or

so.  Couple of minutes later, the killings were done at the latest and

Mr. Simpson would have had plenty of time to leave the crime scene,

get into his car, get back to Rockingham in time to have made the

sounds that Kato Kaelin heard at 10:50 p.m. and to have been seen by

Alan Parks at 10:55 p.m.



The evidence will show that the person who did this left this crime

scene in an extreme hurry.  They left behind all kinds of

incriminating evidence.  Blood drops, bloody shoe prints, a single

glove, a hat.  This was a person in a big hurry.



Now, the defense on this point, I'll just stick with it a few minutes

longer, will try to convince you --.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, this isn't argument what we're trying to

convince --



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. PETROCELLI:  The defense will present evidence.



MR. BAKER:  I object.  This is opening as to what he's going to

present.



THE COURT:  That is correct.  You cannot presuppose what evidence they

will present.



MR. PETROCELLI:  They have a <PHAEUGS>.



THE COURT:  They may and or they may not offer the evidence.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Very well, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  It's a contention -- that was in a contention.  You may

argue it.



MR. PETROCELLI:  It is.



THE COURT:  Overruled.  You may argue it. Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  The defense position, one of the defense says that

Mr. Simpson did not have enough time to commit the murders.  And the

basis for the defense's position is that the struggle with Ron and

Nicole lasted too long.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object. This is argument.  I want

to be heard on this.



THE COURT:  You may make up your contentions.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Is the reporter <PWOG>.



THE COURT:  The reporter.



(The following proceedings were held at bench:)



MR. PETROCELLI:  One of their critical positions in this case is that

there was a long struggle.



THE COURT:  My question to you was:  Was there a contention

interrogatory that was responded to, to that effect?



MR. BAKER:  Absolutely.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I don't have it.  Mr. Baker won't disavow that that's

not his position.  He's just trying to say that he can't discuss it,

even though it's a contention.



MR. BAKER:  Don't say what my --



THE COURT:  Go ahead.



MR. BAKER:  It's my position, in opening statements, they can show

what their evidence is going to present.  They cannot argue that the

evidence or contention that we say is our case is ineffectual. That's

not opening statement.  Opening statement is what their case is, what

their evidence is going to prove, what they have a burden of proving. 

It is not to rebut what our position may or may not be at the time of

trial.



And for him to do that, it then becomes argument.  And he's got to, in

my opinion, save that for the conclusion of his case.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, a good part of my opening is going to be

devoted to addressing the defense contentions.  One is that there's a

long struggle and the time was insufficient to that there was a

conspiracy.



THE COURT:  Mr. Petrocelli, you may, in your opening statement, state

it in a form that if it is a -- if it is going to be a contention that

there was insufficient time or defense will show thus and thus and so

on, but I think it would be improper to presuppose that Mr. Baker is

going to offer any particular evidence on any particular subject

raised by his contentions.  You may raise it as a hypothetical in

affect and you may state the evidence that you are going to offer that

a contention is made as to this.  Or any contentions made to that. 

You cannot say that he is going to actually raise that as a

contention.



MR. PETROCELLI:  In this case, they're going to put on an expert that

will say that the struggle took 15 minutes.



THE COURT:  Mr. Baker may decide not to call this man at all.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Then I'd like to be able to say that if the defense

offers evidence that the struggle was wrong, then I would like to go

on.



MR. BAKER:  With great respect, I think he has to.  He can say that

the evidence will show it doesn't take 10 to 15 minutes, but he can't

start presupposing what I'm going to put on.  He can say all he wants

about why it took a minute or anything like that.



THE COURT:  Mr. Petrocelli, I'm a sympathetic person to the defense

position.  You're trying to shape his argument and shape his

presentation of his case and I don't think that's appropriate.



MR. PETROCELLI:  We're going to get into this on the planning and

conspiracies.  I intend to show that there's no evidence at all to

support any of those issues, Your Honor.  I mean, that's what he's

been talking to the jury about for 30 days.



THE COURT:  This is opening statement.  You're going to be setting

forth what your evidence is going to be.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I would also like to point out that there will be no

evidence presented with respect to other.



THE COURT:  You don't know that.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I do know that from the interrogatory answer that

there will be no evidence presented, for example, there were two

gloves at Bundy.  There will be no evidence presented.



THE COURT:  You may state that.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Those are the kind of things.



THE COURT:  But you cannot state Mr. Baker's defense.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I'll try to.



MR. BREWER:  If we say defense may contend the following then we can

address that in opening statements.



THE COURT:  No, I think Mr. Baker's right.  I think you cannot state

what his defense is going to be.



MR. BREWER:  If it's raised in a hypothetical form.



THE COURT:  No, I don't think so because --



MR. BREWER:  I THOPBLG> thought you said if he raised it in a

hypothetical form.



THE COURT:  I think Mr. Baker convinced me otherwise.



MR. PETROCELLI:  That's the big part of the case, that the struggle

was 10, 20 minutes.  Can I introduce that was their position that

there was struggle, lasted long enough to say that Simpson couldn't be

the person and I want to demonstrate why the evidence is such and so

you have to understand the context in which I'm talking about this? 

They don't understand the context if I can't say it was fighting

around and at 10:35 that there was a 20 minutes fight. There's no way

it could be.



THE COURT:  You can save it for your closing argument.  You wanted to

--  want to explain to the jury what evidence you are going to offer,

you may. And you can state it for the purpose of showing that the

struggle lasted only such and such a minute.  But your front loading

this and I don't think that's appropriate because we haven't heard any

evidence yet.



MR. PETROCELLI:  We do have his specific contentions in this regard.



THE COURT:  I understand that.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Including the timing which I don't have with me but I

can show you after lunch.



MR. BAKER:  That' not the issue.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I'll move forward on this point for now.



THE COURT:  Okay.  Thanks.



(The following proceedings were resumed in open Court in the presence

of the jury.)



MR. PETROCELLI:  Just to conclude this point, then I'm going to move

on to a different topic.



The evidence that we will present through the physical evidence at the

crime scene through the testimony regarding the wound delivered to the

victims, through the testimony of Dr. Spitz is that Ron and Nicole

struggled briefly and died quickly and that there was more than ample

time for Mr. Simpson to leave there 10:35, 10:40 and even as late as

10:45 to get back to Rockingham by 10:50.



Now, with respect to the specific evidence that was found at Bundy,

starting with the hair evidence, we will call to the stand a man named

Douglas Deedrick who's an agent with the FBI and he works in the

laboratory that deals with hair and fiber's.  He examined the hair and

fiber evidence that was found in this case.



Starting with the hat, the knit cap found at Bundy, Mr. Deedrick will

testify.  What Mr.` Deedrick did is he examined that hat, the hair,

the hair found in that hat and he examined some samples of Mr.

Simpson's hair provided by Mr. Simpson and he compared them.



And Mr. Deedrick will testify that there was in effect, a match

between the two.  That they shared the same microscopic

characteristics, that is Mr. Simpson's hair and the hair found in the

hat at Bundy.



Mr. Deedrick will also testify, and by the way, Mr. -- We'll present

evidence showing that Mr. Simpson has knit caps and had knit caps at

that time just like the one found at Bundy.



Mr. Deedrick will also testify that hair found on Ron Goldman's shirt

matched Mr. Simpson's hair.  He will testify that hairs found on the

Rockingham glove, the glove found behind the side of Mr. Simpson's

house, matched Nicole's hair and other hair on it matched Ron

Goldman's hair.



Mr. Deedrick will testify that he found certain rose beige fibers on

the knit cap at Bundy, particular rare type of carpet fiber that he

will say is found in very few Bronco automobiles.  And he will testify

that after comparing the fibers, the carpet fibers found in the hat to

the carpet fibers in Mr. Simpson's car, that they matched.  They

shared the same microscopic characterization.



He also examined the fibers, carpet fibers found on the Rockingham

glove and he said those carpet fibers are the same fibers as found in

Mr. Simpson's car.



He also found a different kind of fiber, a blue black cotton fiber in

several different places and it was the same blue black cotton fiber

found in these places:  1, Ron Goldman's shirt; 2, the glove found at

Rockingham; and 3, the socks in Mr. Simpson's bedroom.  That again,

Mr. Deedrick will testify all these fibers matched indicating that

they all came from a common source.



On the gloves, one glove was found at Bundy, one glove was found at

Rockingham.  Both gloves Aris leather like, extra large, color brown. 

We will present evidence in this case that Nicole Brown Simpson on

December 18, 1990, purchased two pairs of Aris leather light gloves,

extra large, color brown and color black.  She purchased them at

Bloomingdale's in New York city close to where she and Mr. Simpson had

an apartment.



Only Bloomingdale's, by the way, sold these gloves in the United

States and only two hundred pairs were sold in 1990 to 1991 when

Nicole bought them in Mr. Simpson's extra large size.



After December 18, 1990 when Nicole bought these gloves, we have

pictures that we will present showing Mr. Simpson wearing both pairs

of gloves.  We have six photographs, somebody wearing the black

gloves, somebody wearing the brown gloves.  By the way, these gloves,

stylewise, are made to be skin tight, so that you have dexterity when

you're using them.  They're not big ski gloves.  They're very

tight-fitting gloves.  You will hear testimony from the woman who was

in charge of these gloves, of selling these gloves at Bloomingdale's.



Now, we have asked Mr. Simpson to produce the gloves that he was seen

wearing in the photographs and he will not be able to present, in

court, those gloves.  Neither pair of them.



We will prove that the gloves that he was wearing in those photographs

and that Nicole bought on December 18, 1990, the brown pair, were the

ones he used when he killed Ron and Nicole leaving one at Bundy and

one at Rockingham.



Let me turn to the show prints.  We will call to the stand, FBI agent

William Bodziak who is one of the country's most foremost experts in

shoe print impressions.  And he will testify after reviewing all of

the evidence, the photographs and so forth, crime scene pictures,

taking measurements and doing lots of investigative work around the

world that these shoe prints that were left at Bundy were all the same

size, size 12.  That there were no other shoe prints left behind that

night.  He will explain that only nine percent of the population wears

size 12. Mr. Simpson wears size 12.



He was able to take an impression of the bloody shoe print and track

down the precise type of sole that made that bloody shoe print and

it's a Silga sole made in Italy that is used on a shoe called a Bruno

Magli or Bruno Magli as some people say, shoe. It's an expensive

casual shoe.  It costs $160, sold in only 40 stores in the United

States in 1991 and 1992.



It's a casual shoe, sort of leather type shoe.  It's dark in color,

particular style here is called the Lorenzo style and it has this

Silga sole which has like a waffle-type pattern to it.  That is the

sole that William Bodziak will say made that shoe print, and that sole

is only used on a Bruno Magli shoe.  So we know and can prove that

that shoe that left a shoe print was a Bruno Magli shoe, size 12,

Lorenzo style, dark in color.



At Mr. Simpson's deposition we asked him whether he wore those type of

shoes and his testimony is as follows on this and we will present it

to you at page 1305.  Question was about whether he wore Bruno Magli

shoes, the kind that left the bloody shoe prints.



"Q.     Did you ever buy shoes that you knew wore Bruno Magli shoes.



"A.     No.



"Q.     How do you know that?



"A.     Because I know Bruno Magli makes shoes that look like the

shoes they had in court that's involved in this case I would have

never owned those ugly-ass shoe.



"Q.     You thought those were ugly-ass shoes.



"A.     Yes.



That deposition was taken back in February, 1996.  A month or so later

after that deposition, a photograph appeared in the National Enquirer

taken by a photographer named Harry Scull, Jr., whose testimony you

will hear.



He's a sports photographer in Buffalo where Mr. Simpson used to play

football and go back and broadcast football games.  He worked for the

Associated Press in 1993 and on September 26, 1993 there was a game

between the Buffalo Bills, the Miami Dolphins in Rich Stadium, New

York Buffalo's stadium and Mr. Scull working for the AP took

photographs of lots of players including some shots of Mr. Simpson

broadcasting on the sidelines interviewing athletes.



In the past Mr. Scull had taken many, many pictures of Mr. Simpson. 

This was not the first time.



If the Associated Press didn't use the photographs as Mr. Scull will

testify, he would try to then sell them.  That's how he earns his

living.



In September of 1993, one of the pictures that he took is a picture

that shows Mr. Simpson in the end zone wearing a jacket, tie, shirt,

belt, pants, shoes that are clearly visible including the bottom of

the shoe, the sole.



We've had those shoes that picture shown to an expert by the way, an

expert who used to head the photographic and questioned documents unit

at the FBI for 25 years, a guy named Gerry Richards.  He will testify

that the photograph is authenticated looked at the negative and no

question about the photograph.



We've also had the shoes shown in that photograph that Mr. Simpson is

wearing given to an expert Mr. Bodziak the shoe print expert and we've

asked him to identify the shoe based on his training and knowledge and

he can positively identify that the shoe Mr. Simpson is wearing in

that photograph is a Bruno Magli Lorenzo style size 12 that has the

Silga sole to it.  That is the shoe that left the bloody shoe prints

on Bundy on June 12.



Once again we've asked Mr. Simpson to produce the shoes that he has

been shown wearing in that photograph taken in September, 1993, just

eight months or so before Nicole's death.



He cannot produce them.  We've asked him where are the shoes and where

are the gloves that are seen in those photographs and his answers and

we will present them to you here in court in testimony, "I gave them

away."



Asked him who he gave them to his answer, he can't identify who he

gave them to.



Your Honor, this is a good time.



THE COURT:  All right.  Ladies and gentlemen we'll adjourn to 1:30

don't talk about the case among yourselves or with anyone else and

don't form or express any opinion.





(At 11:58 A.M. an adjournment was taken until

1:35 P.M. of the same day.)





SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA; WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1996

1:35



DEPARTMENT NO. WEE

HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)





(Jurors resume their respective seats.)



THE COURT:  Okay, you may resume.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.  When we last left off before the noon

hour, I was explaining to you the physical evidence that was found and

how it tied in to Mr. Simpson.



I'd like to resume.



Kato Kaelin will testify that on the evening of June the 12th, when he

saw Mr. Simpson and went to McDonald's, Mr. Simpson was wearing a dark

sweat suit with a white zipper to it.



Bear in mind also that the testimony of the hair and fiber expert,

Douglas Deedrick, is that he found blue-black cotton fibers on various

items.



At his deposition, Mr. Simpson testified that he didn't recall owning

any dark sweat suit.  We've asked him to produce the dark sweat suit

for us, and he has not been able to produce any dark sweat suit, even

though you will hear the testimony of Kato Kaelin that he was wearing

a dark sweat suit on the evening of June 12.



Now, the physical evidence that I've described so far at Bundy will

indicate that the killer had cuts or gouges on his left hand,

evidenced by the blood drops that fell to the left of the bloody shoe

print.



Also, we know the left glove came off, because it was dropped there,

and that's probably how the left hand got injured.



Now, Mr. -- One other thing is, the Bronco had blood drops in the

door, where you open up the door, on the driver's side interior panel,

as I explained before.



Where you would open up the door there was some blood drops in that

little well there, also suggesting blood on the left fingers.



So the evidence will show that the killer had blood coming from his

left fingers or hand.



When Mr. Simpson returned from Chicago on June 13, he had cuts on his

left finger, two of his fingers.  He went to the police that day and

gave a statement, and one of those cuts was very noticeable and was

photographed.  And we have a picture of it, which we will show you.



His friend who was at the police station with him and with him during

that entire day will testify -- his name is Leroy Taft -- that he saw

at least two cuts on Mr. Simpson's fingers, the middle finger and the

fourth finger, on June 13.  So we have Mr. Simpson coming back from

Chicago with cuts on his left hand, left fingers.



In his deposition in this case, we asked Mr. Simpson about his cuts on

his left hand, and he was unable to explain exactly how he got them. 

His testimony in his deposition was that he cut himself in Chicago in

his hotel room.  After he claims to have heard the news of Nicole's

death, he went into the bathroom and somehow cut himself on a glass, a

drinking glass, but does not remember exactly how he did it, and

cannot tell us how he cut himself in the bathroom in that Chicago

hotel room.



However, long before he gave his deposition in this case, on June 13,

when he went to speak to the police at Parker Center, he told the

police in a statement that he cut himself before going to Chicago. 

And we will present that testimony or those statements to you.



So, we have his statement on June 13 admitting that he cut himself

before he went to Chicago.  Now we have his testimony in this case

saying he cut him himself in the hotel room.



Now, probably the most important evidence that we will present in this

trial that identifies Mr. Simpson as the person who killed Ron and

Nicole is the blood evidence, although there's lots of other evidence,

as well, as you've heard me discuss.



The blood evidence was tested mainly through DNA tests, highly

reliable, scientific DNA tests.  I'm going to talk to you a little bit

about DNA.  First, before I do so, I want to describe what the blood

tests showed.



Starting with Bundy, again, Nicole's condominium, the blood drops to

the left of the shoe print were tested, and they matched Mr. Simpson's

blood.  The blood found on the back gate of Nicole's condominium was

tested.  They matched Mr. Simpson's blood.



At Rockingham, the blood on the driveway was tested.  That matched Mr.

Simpson's blood.



The blood in his foyer was tested; that matched his blood.  The blood

in the bathroom was tested; that matched his blood.



There were three different kinds of blood stains on the glove found at

Rockingham.  One stain matched Mr. Simpson's blood.  Another stain

matched Nicole's blood, and another stain matched Ron Goldman's blood.



The socks found in Mr. Simpson's bedroom were tested.  Two different

kinds of stains were found on the socks:  One matched Mr. Simpson's

blood; one matched Nicole's blood.



The blood in the Bronco was tested.  The blood on the door panel that

I've been telling you about, where you open up the door, that matched

Mr. Simpson's blood.



There was blood found on the console that matched Mr. Simpson's blood,

the  center console between the passenger and driver's seat.



There was blood found on the panel and on the console that also

matched Nicole's blood, and there was blood found there that matched

Ron's blood.



So you have in these three places, where most of the evidence was

found -- Bundy, Rockingham, in the Bronco -- only three types of

blood:  Ronald Goldman's, Nicole Brown Simpson's, and O.J. Simpson's.



One other thing I'll mention about the Bronco:  There was a carpet on

the driver's side that had blood stains on it.  The blood was tested

and found to be Nicole's blood.  The blood was located in an area on

the carpet where one would step into the Bronco with your foot, if

you're trying to enter into the car.



And there were marks in Nicole's blood in the Bronco consistent with a

shoe print.  And FBI agent William Bodziak will say while there's not

enough marks to make an absolute identification, that the marks that

he does see on the carpet in Nicole's blood are consistent with the

unique Bruno Magli sole that made the shoe print at the Bundy crime

scene.



Furthermore, Mr. Bodziak will explain that, because of the thickness

of the carpet in the Bronco, if a person had blood on his shoes and he

was walking on concrete, and the blood started to wear off and not

leave anymore bloody shoe prints, once you step onto the rug, the

carpet, because of the thickness of it, the blood will squeeze out of

the sole and thereby leave an imprint.



And that's what we will show you.



Now, let me talk to you a little bit about the blood tests that I've

just described which produced results matching the defendant's blood,

as well as the victim's blood.



Most of these tests were DNA tests.  Just a little background about

DNA that you will hear from our experts.



DNA is the genetic blueprint of life.  It is the nucleus of every cell

in the human body; it's what makes us unique.  No two persons except

identical twins have the same DNA profile.



Each of us has our own unique DNA.



When we say DNA acts as the blueprint of life, this is what we mean: 

It is the DNA in our cells that causes us to have common

characteristics of human beings, such as arms, legs, hearts and

livers, et cetera.  And it is also the DNA which causes us to have the

characteristics that make us different from everyone else:  Brown

eyes, blue eyes, short, tall, right-handed, left-handed, et cetera.



Each person gets half of his or her DNA from his mother and the other

from his or her father.



DNA can be found throughout a person's body.  Blood, sperm, hair,

saliva, bone, teeth, organ muscles, and other tissues all contain DNA

that can be tested by scientists.  And particularly important in

forensic use that is using DNA to solve crimes is body fluids, such as

saliva and blood, that can be tested for the presence of DNA.



DNA obviously is not just used in forensic applications; it's used in

a great variety of areas, including diagnosis of disease, development

of new medicines, typing of tissues for organs and bone-marrow

transplants, and the study and breeding of endangered species,

increasing agricultural production, and others.



For example, it was because of DNA research that the scientific

community was able to determine that the disease known as sickle cell

anemia was caused by a genetic defect.  So it's a very powerful,

powerful piece of science.



Now, in terms of the forensic use of DNA, scientists are using it to

solve crimes.  DNA has been used to determine that people accused of

crimes could not have been the killer, are excluded as the killer,

because there is no DNA match.  Sometimes people who have been wrongly

convicted and sentenced to jail can be released years later because of

DNA tests that are done.



And, of course, it works the other way, as well.  DNA can be an

important indicator that a person is likely to be the person who

committed the crime.



Now, the DNA tests in this case, right from the beginning, there are

going to -- they're going to be very important, because there was a

lot of blood evidence.  There was blood in the Bronco; there was blood

at Rockingham; and there was blood at Bundy.



Therefore, a decision was made to have DNA tests performed on the

blood found, not just at the Los Angeles Police Department's lab, but

also the State of California's Laboratory, Justice Department in

Sacramento, and one of the largest privately owned forensic

laboratories in the country, Cellmark Laboratories in Maryland.  So

all three labs were used to do the blood tests in this case, to make

sure that there were no problems.



Most of the time a piece of blood was tested, it was tested by at

least two and sometimes three of the labs to see if the results would

all be the same.



There are two different kinds of DNA tests that you will be hearing

about.  One test is called the RFLP test.  It's a very, very powerful

DNA test that has the ability to establish a DNA profile to a very

high degree of uniqueness.



The other test is called the PCR test, and it is a test that's

especially developed when you have a smaller quantity of blood.  Blood

comes in various sizes and stains.  Sometimes there's more DNA in the

blood that can be extracted, and sometimes there's less DNA.  When

there's a little bit of DNA, the PCR test is typically used.  When

there's more DNA, the RFLP test is used.



The blood in this case that was tested was subjected to both forms of

tests, the RFLP test and the PCR test.  You will be hearing from our

experts who did this and the other technicians what the results are,

but let me summarize them for you.



On the five Bundy blood drops that were along the walkway, all three

labs tested those blood drops and came up with the same results, all

three laboratories.  The DNA profile of those Bundy blood drops

matched Mr. Simpson's.



On one of the blood drops, blood drop 52, which was outside past the

back gate, they were able to do an RFLP test because there was enough

DNA. And the results of that showed that only one out of 170 million

people could have had that DNA profile. And that profile, of course,

matched Mr. Simpson's.



The blood found on the back gate was subject to DNA tests, both  RFLP

and PCR tests.  Once again, it was determined that those blood drops

had DNA profiles that matched Mr. Simpson's.



One of those drops, number 117-- there's three drops on the back gate

-- had enough DNA to allow scientists to do the RFLP test.  That test

established that the DNA profile in that blood drop matched that of

Mr. Simpson, and was of such a high degree of a match, that only one

out of every 57 billion people could have that same DNA profile.



Of course, there's only about 6 billion people in that neighborhood on

the face of the earth.



Now, going to Rockingham, the trail of blood that was found leading up

the driveway into Mr. Simpson's house, blood drops there were

subjected to both the PCR and the RFLP blood drops, again, by the

different laboratories.



All the labs agreed results were the same:  All the results showed DNA

profile that matched Mr. Simpson's.



The glove that was found at Rockingham was tested at the California

Department of Justice Laboratory.  The tests there on the glove found

some of the blood contained a DNA profile that matched Mr. Simpson's;

some of the blood contained a DNA profile that matched Ron Goldman's;

and some contained the DNA profile that matched Nicole Brown

Simpson's.



The socks were tested.  DNA profile matched Mr. Simpson; another stain

matched Nicole.



And finally, in the Bronco, again, DNA test results established that

the blood on the driver's-side door matched Mr. Simpson's DNA; the

other stains matched Mr. Simpson, Ron Goldman, and Nicole Brown

Simpson.



Now, the only witnesses who will be testifying in this case about

doing DNA tests of the blood in this case are witnesses that we will

be presenting.



You will hear no testimony from any witness by the defense who did a

DNA test.  If they did, they're not going to testify about it.



The only witnesses who will testify about the DNA tests are the

witnesses that we will call.



There will be no evidence contradicting any of the findings of these

DNA tests.



Let me now turn to a different subject altogether.  In addition to the

blood evidence, in addition to the physical evidence that points

directly to Mr. Simpson, we are going to put on other evidence to show

his responsibility for the murders on June 12. Among this evidence

will be evidence describing Mr. Simpson's activities and his behavior

after the murders.



And we will prove by this evidence that he did not act and behave like

an innocent man; that his behavior and his actions indicated a

consciousness of guilt.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object to this based upon the

Court's ruling.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  There are a couple of -- I'm not going to go through

all the evidence here; time doesn't permit it.  And you will be

hearing it in the course of the trial.  I'd like to highlight a few

things that we will present to you.



First of all, when Mr. Simpson packed that limousine, with Alan Park,

driving to the airport, Kato Kaelin was present, together with Alan

Park and Mr. Simpson.  It was about 11:10 p.m. on June 12, and Mr.

Simpson had to get to a flight.



There will be testimony by Alan Park and separate testimony by Kato

Kaelin that after packing some pieces of luggage, there was a bag,

smaller dark bag, out near the Bentley that Mr. Simpson insisted on

picking up himself, not allowing Kaelin, who offered to pick it up and

put it in the car, insisted on picking it up himself and bringing it

into the car.



After Mr. Simpson returned, brought his luggage back, after all of the

legal proceedings, after all of the attempts to obtain all the

discovery in this case, that bag has never been seen again. There will

be no witness who will bring that bag into this court.



Mr. Simpson has produced some luggage that he claims he brought with

him to Chicago that night, including one he claims was this bag.



Kato Kaelin will testify that is not the bag he saw.  Alan Park will

testify that is not the bag he saw.  There is a bag that has never

been seen since June 12.



Mr. Simpson went to Chicago on a red-eye. There will be evidence that

despite the fact that almost everybody in first class slept, he did

not sleep.



He arrived in Chicago and was driven to a hotel a short distance away,

the Chicago O'Hare.  He checked in.  He was driven to the hotel by a

Hertz employee, a man named James Merrill, whose testimony you will

hear.  He's a guy who works for Hertz in Chicago, and when there are

celebrities who come in -- Mr. Simpson was a Hertz paid celebrity --

this guy Merrill's job is to help out.  And he picked Mr. Simpson up

at the airport early in the morning and brought him to the hotel,

packed up the luggage in Mr. Merrill's car -- Mr. Merrill lived 45

minutes, in the suburbs, away from the hotel, away from the airport. 

Mr. Simpson left his golf bag in Mr. Merrill's car.  Mr. Merrill went

off and went to bed.



The next morning, Mr. Simpson received a phone call from Officer --

from Detective Ron Phillips, in which Detective Phillips informed Mr.

Simpson of Nicole's death.



Now, Mr. Simpson is in his hotel room in Chicago.



We will present evidence showing that Mr. Simpson made a series of

phone calls -- at least three that we know about, and we have phone

records to prove them -- to this fellow, James Merrill, who lived 45

minutes away, in order to have him come back to the hotel and take Mr.

Simpson to the airport, even though there was cab and ground

transportation right downstairs, five minutes to the airport.



Mr. Merrill will testify that Mr. Simpson was frantic about Merrill's

picking him up.  And Merrill jumped out of his house, got in his car,

tried to get to the airport -- tried to get to the hotel. Mr. Simpson

had an early flight.  As it turned out, Merrill did not get to the

hotel in time, and Mr. Simpson had to get other transportation to the

airport, and flew to Los Angeles.



Merrill left the golf clubs with American Airlines.  And they put them

on the next flight, and they were shipped back to L.A.



Now, on June 14, which is a Tuesday -- Mr. Simpson arrived in Los

Angeles on Monday, June 13, around eleven o'clock or so.



On Tuesday, Mr. Simpson got up and drove to his office in Brentwood

with his friend, Robert Kardashian, and they went up to Mr. Simpson

office. And Mr. Simpson had his assistant secretary, Cathy Randa, call

Mr. Merrill on the phone.  And in that conversation, Mr. Simpson found

out what happened to his golf clubs.  And he then requested Mr.

Kardashian to take him to the airport to get his golf clubs on

Tuesday, June 14, at around -- I guess before noon or so.



When questioned about this in his deposition, Mr. Simpson claimed he

did not ask to be taken to the airport to get his golf clubs; he just

happened to be riding around with Mr. Kardashian near the airport, and

decided he'd stop in and get his golf clubs.



We will present the testimony of not only Robert Kardashian, but Mr.

Simpson's other friend, Mr. Taft, who will testify that Mr. Simpson

specifically said, "Take me to the airport; I need to get my golf

clubs."



Mr. Simpson, on Monday, when he came back, June 13, got to Rockingham

and then went down to the police station, where he gave a statement to

detectives Tom Lange and Phil Vannatter.  He spoke on a tape for about

30 minutes or so.



And this was the first time, hours after Nicole's murder, that Mr.

Simpson had been questioned about what he did the night before, what

his whereabouts were, and so forth.



Now, you'll hear that tape, or you'll have the statement read in.  You

will see that Mr. Simpson is unable to provide any clear explanation

for what he was doing the night before.



All he could say was, he was rushing and packing, and he was not able

to describe with any detail what he was doing, particularly in that

hour and 20 minutes.  And again, as I mentioned before, when he was

told that blood was found at Rockingham, he said he cut his finger --

he must have cut his finger before going to Chicago, even though now

he says he cut his finger in Chicago in the hotel room.



We will also present to you further deposition testimony of Mr.

Simpson about that cut when we pressed him whether or not he saw any

blood before he went to Chicago, as he told the police.  And all he

said in his deposition is that there was a tiny dab of blood that he

saw on a pinky one time before he got in the limousine, which he

dabbed, and threw the napkin away.



So we will present to you direct inconsistencies in his deposition, in

his police statement, about crucial events.



After he came back from the police statement, later that night, Mr.

Simpson had friends over to his house and family members.  Kato Kaelin

had gone to stay with a friend.  He was asked to come back to Mr.

Simpson's house.



He got there, and he ended up in the kitchen alone with Mr. Simpson

for a few moments. This is about eight or nine o'clock on the evening

of June 13.  Mr. Simpson then said to Mr. Kaelin, alone in the

kitchen, words to this effect:  You saw me go in the house after

McDonald's, didn't you?



And Kato Kaelin said no, I did not.



Kato Kaelin's testimony, as I mentioned previously -- maybe I didn't,

actually -- Kato Kaelin's testimony is that when he came back from

McDonald's, he did not see Mr. Simpson walk back into the house.  Mr.

Kaelin walked into the house while Mr. Simpson stayed at the Bentley

in the driveway, and never moved from it.  We will present this

testimony to, once again, show Mr. Simpson's attempt to build an

alibi.



And finally -- and I will let Mr. Brewer talk to you more about this

-- on Friday, June 17 of that week, the police made a decision to

arrest Mr. Simpson for the murders of Ron and Nicole.  And Mr. Simpson

was notified of this while he was staying at his friend's house,

Robert Kardashian.



We will present to you evidence, including the testimony of Mr.

Simpson, that when he found out that he was going to be arrested, he

and his friend, boyhood friend, Allen Cowlings, got into Mr. Cowling's

car and left the Kardashian home.  And they took off.



And in that car was not only Mr. Simpson's personal effects, including

his passport, but he also had, between Cowlings and him, over $8,000

in cash, changes of clothing, of underwear, windbreaker, and other

items of clothing.



There was a disguise: fake goatee, and there was a loaded gun.



Now, Mr. Simpson will testify that he was suicidal because of the loss

of Nicole.  We will present to you evidence and prove that Mr. Simpson

fled the police with Mr. Cowlings and contemplated suicide because he

knew he was responsible for these murders.  We will show that there is

no other explanation.



Mr. Brewer will discuss this with you in greater detail when he

speaks.



Now, people always ask when there's a killing, what's the motive.  And

that's a good, important question.



Technically, the lawsuit does not require us to prove a motive.  But

when there is a motive, it's important to bring out, because it helps

to explain why something happened, why a person would kill another

person.



In this case, O.J. Simpson had a motive to kill Nicole, which I will

describe to you very briefly, and I will let Mr. Kelly recount to you

in greater detail.



He had a motive to kill Ron Goldman for the simple reason that Ron

would have been and eyewitness, or was and eyewitness to the murder of

his friend, Nicole.



Nicole was killed for a different reason. We will present evidence

showing that in this relationship between Nicole Brown Simpson and

O.J. Simpson, there was severe conflict, tension, anger, that had been

building up.  There had been a recent estrangement, recent rejection

of Mr. Simpson.  There was a history of abuse, and there was a history

of rage.



And after the divorce in 1992, Mr. Simpson and Nicole tried again to

make their relationship work.  In a month before the murders, Nicole

ended it for the final time.  And we will show that Mr. Simpson could

not accept this, was frustrated, was confused, was angry, and he

retaliated.  He also tried to get her back, buying her expensive gifts

when she returned.



And in the end, there was a build-up of a lot of anger and a build-up

of a lot of hostility, to the point where we will present to you a

letter that Mr. Simpson sent to Nicole just six days before she was

killed, threatening -- putting her on notice about possible IRS

violations, knowing the impact that it would have on Nicole, and

knowing that it would cause her to have to sell her house because of

possible tax problems, and she would have to move with her two

children.



And, in fact, one day before her murder, on Saturday, June 11, Nicole

hired a realtor and had found a place in Malibu that she was going to

move to.



On the date of the murders, June 12 -- and again, the details will be

laid out for you by Mr. Kelly -- I will just mention this:  Mr.

Simpson had flown all the way back from the east coast.  He was tired

he was exhausted.  He wanted to go to his daughter's recital on Sunday

with the family.  He was not invited to sit with the family.



By "the family," I mean his wife and her mother and father and

sisters.



He was not invited to a celebration dinner after the recital, and he

was pretty much alone, maybe for the first time in his life.



The defendant claims that he tried calling the house at 9:00 p.m. that

evening, just to speak to Sydney, whom he had just seen at the

recital. He said he did not say anything to Nicole.  We don't know

what happened in that call.  But what we do know and what we can

prove, is that an hour later, Mr. Simpson went over there in dark

clothing, dark shoes, dark hat, dark gloves, with a knife, in a rage,

and killed Nicole and Ron.



Now, I've laid out for you the basic elements of our case.  And Mr.

Kelly and Mr. Brewer will fill in.  We have the evidence in this case,

ladies and gentlemen, that will show that Mr. Simpson had time and

opportunity to kill Nicole, that there were severe problems in his

relationship with Nicole at that time.  In fact, the relationship was

over.



That all of the physical evidence of the case points only to him and

no one else.  All the evidence collectively points to him and nobody

else.



We submit to you that establishes to a certainty that Mr. Simpson

killed Ron and killed Nicole.



Now, what I'd like to do now is talk a little bit about what the

defense will contend in response to -- or does contend in response to

all this evidence.



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to object to that, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I need to be heard.



THE COURT:  Okay.





(The following proceedings were held at the bench, with the reporter.)





MR. PETROCELLI:  I'm now going to spend my remaining time dealing with

their defense of contamination and conspiracy, which is at the core of

their case.



Mr. Baker has said to the jury over and over again, if you're to find

Mr. Simpson innocent, basically, you would have to conclude that

evidence was planted or was contaminated.  This is their contention;

it's in their interrogatories.  And I'm going to go through the lack

of evidence of any conspiracy and any contamination, any planting of

evidence.  This is, in effect, their affirmative defense.  And I have

the right to detail what evidence that we will show that demonstrates

that these positions are not accurate.



Now I'm not going to say what evidence they're going to put on; I'm

simply going to say that this is their defense:  Contamination and

conspiracy or planting of evidence.  That's right out of their

interrogatory answers.  Then I'm going to proceed to detail the

evidence that we will present to defeat those claims.



THE COURT:  Well, what place does that have in the opening statement?



MR. PETROCELLI:  His defense is like an affirmative defense.



THE COURT:  Where is it?  Is it in the pleading?



MR. PETROCELLI:  It's in the contention to interrogatories that the

evidence was planted and the evidence was contaminated.



THE COURT:  You don't address it in opening statements; you can argue

in it in closing.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, we want to lay out the evidence that

we're going to present, to show in this case that there was no

planting and there was no contamination.  I want to go through the way

the crime scene --



THE COURT:  If you want to do that, go ahead. You don't have to lay

out Mr. Baker's theory.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I don't intend  to lay out his theory at all, except

to identify their defense is conspiracy and planting of evidence and

contamination; that's what their defense is.



THE COURT:  I'm not going to permit to you identify their defense as

their defense.  And if you want to say this is our effort to show

there was no contamination, that there was no conspiracy, fine, go

ahead.  But you can't speak for Mr. Baker.



MR. PETROCELLI:  I would like -- fine.  I won't say anything about the

defense.





(The following proceedings were held in open court,

in the presence of the jury.)





MR. PETROCELLI:  In the last part of my remarks, I would like to spend

some time detailing the evidence:  How the crime scenes were

processed, how the evidence was collected, so that you will see, based

on the evidence that we present, that there was no planting of

evidence, and there was no contamination of evidence, and that all of

the evidence that was collected was put there by the defendant, not by

members of the LAPD.  And none of the evidence was contaminated and

none of the evidence mistakenly identified Mr. Simpson, in particular,

blood evidence.



First of all, on the subject of conspiracy, we will put on evidence

showing that members of the Los Angeles Police Department, if

anything, had a favorable impression of Mr. Simpson, and none of the

persons involved in this case had any axe to grind whatsoever.  There

are a couple of insurance agents that point this out that we will

present.



One time in 1984, Mr. Simpson took a baseball bat to Nicole's

windshield, and the police were called out, and the office that came

out to the to the house was Mark Fuhrman.



And Mr. Simpson himself will testify that Mark Fuhrman did not arrest

him; Mark Fuhrman did not frisk him, did not search him, did not

harass him. There was no mistreatment of him in connection with that

incident in 1984.



Three or four years later, in 1989, there was another incident in

which the police came out to Rockingham on the morning of January 1,

1989, because Nicole had been beaten.  And you will hear evidence

about that incident.



The police arrived -- Fuhrman, by the way, was not -- was not involved

in that incident at all.  There were other officers involved,

including Officer Edwards.



Police arrived and they told Mr. Simpson to get on his clothes, get

dressed; they were going to take him in, after seeing Nicole and

hearing from Nicole.



Mr. Simpson got dressed, got in his car and drove out the other way,

and fled the scene.



Okay.  We will prove by the officers who were there, that Mr. Simpson

was never arrested for what he did for fleeing.  Charges were never

filed against him; nothing happened to him for leaving the scene.



Just eight months before Nicole's death in October of 1993, once

again, the police were called out to Nicole's house, this time at her

own apartment in Brentwood on Gretna Green, where she lived right

before she went to Bundy.



There was another incident in which Mr. Simpson was upset, broke part

of a door down, and the police were called out.



We will present to you evidence of that incident, showing that the

police did everything in their power to keep it quiet so there

wouldn't be any problem for Mr. Simpson.



There will be no evidence presented that anybody had any motive to do

anything wrong to O.J. Simpson, let alone frame him for a double

murder.



Furthermore, we will show to you that most of the officers involved in

investigating this case didn't even know one another.  People like

Phil Vannatter and Lange did not know Mark Fuhrman, for example, and

they will so testify.



We will prove to you that there were a large number of people involved

in this investigation; it wasn't one or two persons who found all the

evidence.  Lots of people were involved.  And I'm going to go through

some of those people in a minute.



There were lab technicians; there were criminalists; there were

scientists; there were coroner's assistants; there were people who

drive cars to and from; there were police officers who secure crime

scenes, people who put up crime-scene tape; officers who take care of

traffic; detectives, lead detectives, watch commanders, lots and lots

of people involved in this investigation collecting the evidence and

storing it and testing it and investigating the case.



And there will be no evidence that any of them did anything wrong to

harm Mr. Simpson, to prejudice Mr. Simpson, let alone to frame Mr.

Simpson.



The first officer who arrived at Bundy was Officer Robert Riske.  He

came with his partner, officer Michael Terrazas, at 12:13 a.m., wee

hours of the morning, June 13.  The bodies had been discovered by Mr.

Boztepe, with Nicole's dog, right after midnight, a couple of hours

after the police were summoned, and the first two officers who arrived

are Officers Riske and Terrazas.  And you will hear them testify they

arrived at the scene; they saw what had happened; they saw two people

had been killed.  And they immediately got on the phone and called

more officers to the scene.



And officers started arriving in units, in teams.  And lots of them

came.



And let me just pick a point:  One o'clock in the morning, okay?  By

one o'clock in the morning, there were about a dozen officers, or at

least six to a dozen officers, in that range, were coming or on their

way there.  And you'll hear some of the these names as the officers

testify.



The crime scene was immediately secured. An officer was sent to secure

the back, so nobody would come in through the back and damage any

evidence.  Officers were put on the front; officers were put around

the corner; crime-scene tape was put on this; it's what officers do

when they arrive at a crime scene.



Now, it's not the job of the police officers to start doing the

detective work, the investigators are.  What they do is, they call and

get detectives assigned to the case.



At this time, it was a West L.A. case because it occurred in West L.A.



We will hear evidence that the West L.A. detective was summoned, and

his name was Ronald Phillips.  He was asked to send a team of

detectives out to Bundy.  And Detective Phillips called two people up:

 Detective Roberts and Detective Fuhrman. It was about one o'clock

a.m. when he called them to say, "You better get here to the police

station; we have to go out to a crime scene."  1:00 a.m.  Mark Fuhrman

is in bed 1:00 a.m.  Detective Roberts is in bed 1:00 a.m.



Detective Tom Lange, who later got involved, he's in bed.  Detective

Phil Vannatter, he's in bed.  Dennis Fung, the criminalist who got

involved later on, he's in bed.  His assistant, Andrea Mazzola, he's

in bed -- she's in bed.  Excuse me.



The lab technician who did a lot of lab work, Collin Yamauchi, he's in

bed.  His boss, Greg Matheson, he's in bed.  The head of the lab,

Michele Kestler, she's in bed.  So you get the picture.



Now, while all these people are in bed, the first officers on the

scene see the all the basic evidence that I've just described to you. 

They see the two bodies; they see fresh blood drops on the walkway. 

They see the blood on the back gate.  We will prove to you from these

officers' observations and their notes, that that blood was not

planted on the back gate and could not have been planted, because the

officers saw it at 12:30 in the morning.



Riske saw it; Terrazas saw it.  They showed it to other officers who

came.  And there's even a photograph that picks up at least one stain

of the three.  So with this evidence, not only the officers'

observations, not only their notes but a photograph.  We will

demonstrate that there is no conceivable way that any blood on the

back gate was planted.



The first officers on the scene saw it. In addition, these officers

saw the other evidence that had been left behind.  They saw the knit

cap lying on the ground, and they saw a single leather glove.



When the other teams of officers came and finally the detectives

arrived, everybody was pointing out the basic evidence so they

wouldn't touch it or interfere with it, just look at it.



Now, Detective Phillips, who called Fuhrman out of bed and called

Roberts out of bed, Detective Phillips got over to Bundy at around ten

after 2:00 with Mark Fuhrman, and they were going to be the initial

detectives who would handle the case.



After they surveyed the crime scene, detective Fuhrman sat down to

make out his report, and then was told -- and you will hear this from

the testimony of Detective Phillips  -- that a decision had been made,

because it was probably going to be a big case, high-profile case and

so forth, that it was going to be transferred downtown, from West L.A.

to downtown, to the robbery/homicide division, and that new detectives

would be coming and taking over.



And Phillips finds that out around, I don't know, 20 to 3:00, quarter

to 3:00 in the morning.  He then waited around with Fuhrman, with

Roberts, with 14, 15 other people who are there by that time, for the

detectives to come over, just making sure the crime scene is secure.



Now, let's first focus on the time period before Detective Fuhrman got

there at ten after 2:00. Everybody who looked at the evidence at the

crime scene saw only one glove.  And they saw the knit hat; they saw

the blood drops and the victims' bodies, of course,



Nobody who was there before Detective Fuhrman arrived or Detective

Phillips, ever saw a second glove.  Nobody ever saw a second glove

there.



After Detective Phillips arrived with Fuhrman, other detectives and

people who came were shown the crime scene.  And those people didn't

see a second glove.



In other words, the point I'm making here is, there is no evidence

that there was ever a second glove at Bundy.  And we will present

evidence to you that there was only a single glove at Bundy; that

everybody who was there, saw only one glove.  And I don't mean right

at the walkway or right in the dirt area where Ron's body was found; I

mean anywhere around the area, including in the back and in the front,

wherever the officers went to secure the scene to keep out people, to

look around.  No one ever saw a second glove at Bundy.  If there is no

second glove at Bundy, there can be no planting of a glove.



Detective Lange and Detective Vannatter arrived at the Bundy crime

scene a little after 4:00 in the morning.  They were the

robbery/homicide detectives who were asked to come down and take over

the case.



Detective Fuhrman was waiting with Detective Phillips and others,

after stopping writing his report, and was told he was not going to be

working on the case any longer.  He stopped writing his report, and

for about and hour or so, he's with Fuhrman; that is, with Phillips

and others waiting for Vannatter and Lange to arrive.



Now, during that hour, we will present testimony of the officers that

Mark Fuhrman was never alone with any crucial piece of evidence; that

he was always with other people, or didn't really have the ability to

take evidence, even if he wanted to; that he was generally with other

people and wasn't alone with crucial evidence, assuming there ever was

a second glove.



And you'll hear those officers testify.



Now, when Vannatter and Lange arrived -- these are seasoned

detectives, been on the force many years:  Lange over 20 years, 25

years or so, and Detective Vannatter about 26, 27 years.



They surveyed the situation and then they decided, with collaboration

with others up the chain of command, that Mr. Simpson ought to be

given personal notification of what had happened to Nicole.



Now, when the initial officers arrived, the initial instructions were

given out.  Sydney and Justin were still sleeping in their beds.  And

the officers awakened them, took them in a separate car to the West

L.A. Police Station, and one or two officers sat there with Sydney and

Justin, entertained them, and fed them and played with them and so

forth.  So the children were at the police station.



The officers determined that detectives -- determined that Detectives

Lange and Vannatter ought to go over and give personal notification to

Mr. Simpson because he was a VIP and an important person; he was a

celebrity.  Frankly, they were going to go out of their way to give

him a little extra preferential treatment in the case.



They brought with them -- Lange and Vannatter, they brought with them

Phillips and Fuhrman for a reason.  And that is, they were going to

ask Phillips and Fuhrman -- you'll hear Phillips testify about that --

they were going to have Phillips and Fuhrman stay with Mr. Simpson and

have them help him with his children, help make arrangements to get

his children, and see if he had any needs that needed to be tended to.



Detective Tom Lange and Phil Vannatter wanted to meet Mr. Simpson. 

They wanted to establish the beginning of a relationship with him, so

that they can start talking to him and getting leads from him, to

investigate who killed his ex-wife.



And that is why you have all four of those people going over to

Rockingham.



When Tom Lange and Phil Vannatter went to Rockingham, they believed --

and they will testify that they're going to return shortly; they're

not going to be gone long -- they're going to introduce themselves to

Mr. Simpson, make sure that his needs are met, and return, because it

had gotten light out, because it's now 4:00 or 5:00 in the morning, to

start processing the evidence, to pick it up, collect it, put it in

the evidence truck, and start to get the crime scene, you know,

analyzed and broken down.  They only expected to be at Rockingham for

a short time.



When Detectives Vannatter and Lange and Phillips and Fuhrman got to

Rockingham around 5:00 in the morning from Bundy -- and by the way,

Bundy was left secure, with lots of other officers there to make sure

everything was kept intact -- when they got to Rockingham, they tried

to call in to the house, but nobody was home.



They saw a car parked on Rockingham. They were trying to figure out if

anybody was home. Eventually, Detective Fuhrman, looking at the car,

saw a blood spot on the side of the door, and also saw some blood at

the bottom of the door.



He informed the other detectives of this. They took a look at it. 

Meantime, even some other detectives, including a fellow named Daniel

Gonzalez, had come over, and he saw the blood outside the Bronco, as

well.



So you have more than just the four of them.  And now you have

additional people coming to Rockingham, unable to get in touch with

anybody in the house.  An attempt was made to contact Westec Security,

who was responsible for doing security for the house, and see if they

can find out some information through Westec.



Eventually, a decision was made to go onto the property to see if what

was going on, if everything was okay, given the fact that blood was

found on the Bronco on the outside door and at the bottom, and given

the fact that nobody was answering.



They went out -- they went onto the property, Detectives Fuhrman,

Phillips, Vannatter, and Lange, then went to see if anybody was home. 

They found the guest house around the back.  They knocked on the door

and they awakened Kato Kaelin.



And they spoke to Kaelin briefly about where Mr. Simpson was, if

everything was okay, and even checked Mr. Kaelin out to see if -- what

his situation was.  They checked his boots; they gave him a drug test

by putting a light in his eye.  They wanted to make sure that perhaps

he didn't have anything to do with any of this.



Then they went and woke up Mr. Simpson's daughter, Arnelle, who was

living in the guest room next to Mr. Kaelin, and then they went inside

the house.  Arnelle Simpson brought them all inside the house to find

out where Mr. Simpson was. And Arnelle was able to track him down

through Mr. Simpson's secretary, Cathy Randa, who knew Mr. Simpson was

in Chicago at this hotel, and eventually, they found out where he was.



And Detective Phillips called Mr. Simpson around a little after 6:00

in the morning LA time -- it's 8:00 in the morning Chicago time -- and

advised Mr. Simpson of what had happened to Nicole.



And Mr. Simpson told the police that he would come back.



Now, when they got onto Mr. Simpson's property, they notified the

police detectives that there was blood.  They had asked a criminalist

to come down and check out what the blood was on the Bronco door that

they saw.  That criminalist was Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola, who

works for LAPD.  They came out and -- they do crime scenes and they

collect the evidence.



When the police officers saw the blood on the Bronco door, they made a

call to get some criminalists down here, let's see what this blood is

about.  The criminalists Fung and Mazzola, got to Rockingham at about

7:00 in the morning.  By the time they got there, the officers had

gotten on the property, and they also saw that there was blood on the

driveway.



The original plan was that the criminalist would just pick up the

blood on the Bronco door and head over to Bundy.  The officers had no

idea that they were going to encounter, in effect, a second crime

scene at Rockingham.  So when they got there, and as events unfolded,

they realized that this is a second crime scene, there's blood here,

there, blood on the driveway.  There's blood on the Bronco.  So

instead of sending Fung and Mazzola to Bundy, they kept Fung and

Mazzola at Rockingham, to pick up the blood on the outside of the

property only, and in the Bronco.



And in the meantime, Detective Vannatter went downtown to get a search

warrant to look inside the house, to see if there was anything inside

the house that needed to be investigated.



Now, while they were at Rockingham, Detective Fuhrman spoke to Kato

Kaelin, as did Detective Vannatter, and Kato Kaelin told Mr. Fuhrman

about the noises that he had heard from the side of his house the

night before, around, you know, a little before eleven o'clock.



Detective Fuhrman, with that information, was checking around and

ultimately worked himself around the side of the house and found on

the other side of the wall, where Kaelin heard those noises, found a

glove, a leather glove, a dark brown leather glove, just sitting there

on the ground.



He didn't touch it; he immediately told the other people, the other

detectives -- Lange and Vannatter were the two detectives in charge --

and Detective Vannatter said to Mr. Fuhrman, I want you and Mr.

Phillips to go back to Bundy and see if that glove looked like the one

at Bundy.  And he didn't bring the glove with him.  Take a look at it.

 Go back to Bundy and take a look at the glove at Bundy and see if

it's the same glove.



And following Detective Vannatter's instructions, Detective Phillips

got in a car with Detective Fuhrman.  They drove over to Bundy.  They

went and they looked at the glove that was still lying on the ground,

exactly where it was found.  And they took a picture of it.  And it

did, in fact, look to be the same glove that matched the glove at

Rockingham.



Detective Fuhrman then went back to Rockingham and told Detective

Vannatter that the glove matched.  Then Vannatter decided he would go

get a search warrant.



And then again, there will be no witnesses who will testify not

Vannatter, not Lange, not Phillips, that Detective Fuhrman had --



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to object.  This is argument, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. PETROCELLI:  None of these witnesses whom we will call will

testify that Detective Fuhrman came to Rockingham with the second

glove, that he had any ability or opportunity to plant a glove.



The story that will be told by the witnesses is as I have just

outlined it to you.  There will be no evidence that that glove was

planted there.



None of the officers who went to Bundy who will testify in this case

knew where O.J. Simpson was at the time of the murders.  They didn't

know if he had an airtight alibi or not.  There will be no evidence

that any officers at Bundy knew of Mr. Simpson's whereabouts the night

before.  Nobody knew.  For all they knew, he could have been on

national television.



And they will so testify that they didn't know where he was the night

before, and were in no position to frame him, assuming they were

inclined to do such a thing.



THE COURT:  Excuse me.  Ten-minute recess.



Don't talk about the case.





(Recess.)



(Jurors resume their respective seats.)





THE COURT:  You may resume.



MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.



Going to wrap up the chronology of how both Rockingham and Bundy were

processed by the police officers.



When we last left off, before the important break at Rockingham,

Detective Fuhrman had come back with Detective Roberts to tell

Detective Vannatter that the glove -- the Bundy glove, Detective

Vannatter then went to get a search warrant so that additional

evidence could be served inside Mr. Simpson's house.  Dennis Fung and

Andrea Mazzola, the criminalist, began picking up all the blood that

they found on the driveway and on the Bronco and they finished up

around 10 o'clock and they then drove over to Bundy to begin picking

up all that evidence there.



In the mean time, Detective Lange left Rockingham to leave that in

charge of Detective Vannatter and he, Detective Lange, took charge of

Bundy.  That's how they split it up.



Detective Lange went back to Bundy, which he had left about 5:00 in

the morning thinking he would only be gone for a short time.  He gets

back closer to 7:00 now and he now takes control of the Bundy crime

scene and begins the process of writing up his report, checking out

all the evidence and getting everything processed.



The coroner's office calls to send a coroner down to pick up the

victim's bodies, called at 6:49.  They're called again at 8:09 and

they get down there a little after 9:00 in the morning, two coroner

assistants, and they begin to prepare the two victims bodies to be

removed and taken to the coroner's office.



In the mean time, Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola got to Bundy at

around 10:15 in the morning and they began picking up all the blood

evidence, very careful procedure that they employ that you will hear

about.  A trail by which all the blood is collected. That's important.

 They pick out representative samples of blood and they take that and

they put it in special containers and they take it back to the police

lab for storing and then for testing.



They finish their job around 3:00 in the morning, excuse me 3:00 in

the afternoon.  They were at Bundy from like 10:00 to 3:00, picking up

all the evidence and carefully putting it in the evidence truck.



Their day wasn't over yet.  They then had to return to Rockingham

because by this time a search warrant had been issued and more blood

was found inside Mr. Simpson's house on the foyer, when you go in the

front door and in the bathroom.  And some other evidence was found.



So Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola went back to Rockingham and they

picked up the evidence on the inside of Mr. Simpson's house.  And by

the time they finish with all their work that day, it was about 5:30

and they were ready to go back to deliver the evidence to the lab at

Parker Center.



Now, around noon time that afternoon, 11:00 or noon, Mr. Simpson had

arrived in the airport at Rockingham.  He then went downtown to Parker

center and he gave a statement to Detective Lange and Detective

Vannatter and I've spoken about that.



After he gave that statement, he then gave a blood sample.  That was

drawn by a nurse named Thano Peratis.



I guess the time was around 2:30 p.m. or so in the presence of

Detective Vannatter.



Now, Mr. Peratis originally believed that he had drawn about 8 cc's of

blood into the vial but when he recently testified in this case, he

believes it was less than that.



He didn't measure.  By the way, he didn't measure the blood.  He drew

it, estimated it, thought it was 8 cc's.  Now he thinks it was less

than 8 cc's because as he now recalled he used a particular device, a

different kind of device in drawing Mr. Simpson's blood from Mr.

Simpson's arm which he uses on certain people who have larger more

muscular arms.  Instead of a single syringe vacutainer device, he used

a separate syringe, drew the blood and put the blood from the syringe

into a second vial.



So his testimony will be that it was likely less than 8 cc's but he

never measured it.



The blood was then put, given to Detective Vannatter, Mr. Simpson's

blood, in the vial with the top on it, sealed.  Detective Vannatter

put it in an evidence envelope.  Detective Vannatter had a meeting

with Detective Lange and others including Captain Gartland to decide

what to do next in the case.



And they talked about the investigation and what they would do and

then a decision was made that the Detective Lange and Detective

Vannatter would leave Parker center and go to Rockingham where

Detective Vannatter would deliver the criminalist before he left the

blood vial so that it would be with all the other evidence.  And so

that it would all be booked and policed at the same time.



In addition, Detective Lange wanted to ask Mr. Simpson about shoes

that he had worn the night before.



So Detective Vannatter, Detective Lange left Parker Center around 4:00

in the afternoon after interviewing Mr. Simpson, after taking blood,

other things that happened.  There's a photograph of one of Mr.

Simpson's cuts taken as well.



Detective Vannatter and Lange had a meeting, as I said, and then they

left Parker center and with traffic they got to Mr. Simpson's house

around 5:15 p.m. on Monday.  Now, we were still on June 13.  At that

time the criminalist, Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola have just

finished up all the work that I described they had been doing and they

were getting ready to leave.  Detective Vannatter handed Dennis Fung

the Simpson blood vial again sealed and in an envelope.



That was then put by Fung into a black plastic bag.  He then gave it

to Mazzola, walked out to the truck.  Everything was put in the truck

and then Fung and Mazzola drive to the laboratory downtown where they

then unloaded the evidence, put it in what they call the evidence

process room and began laying out the blood evidence to dry, which is

what their normal procedure is.



Now, this is the point I want to make that we will establish here, the

blood evidence at Bundy had been collected by Dennis Fung between 10

o'clock and 2:00  Or 3:00 in the afternoon.  The blood evidence at

Rockingham had been collected early in the morning on the outside and

later in the afternoon on the inside.



All of this blood was collected before Mr. Simpson ever gave his blood

to the place.



Mr. Simpson did not give his blood to the police until Thano Peratis

drew it out of his arm 2:30 p.m. downtown LA and then gave that, Mr.

Peratis gave the blood sealed in an envelope, was put and given to Mr.

Vannatter.



All the blood had been picked up by this time.  By the time Detective

Vannatter arrives back to Rockingham and gives the blood sample to

Dennis Fung, all the blood is picked up.  All the blood at Bundy and

all the blood at Rockingham, with one exception at Bundy which I'll

get to in a minute.



The blood in the Bronco was seen on the outside and on the inside. 

The Bronco blood was not collected by Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola

at Rockingham because the car was locked.



So what they did is they got a tow truck who towed it down to the

police station or to the print shed actually.  And the next morning,

the next morning with a slim jim, several people, including diagnosis

Fung, opened up the car and then they were able to get into the blood

on the inside and collect it.  But the Bronco blood had been seen

before Mr. Simpson gave his blood and the blood had been collected at

Rockingham and Bundy before Mr. Simpson gave his blood.  This proves

that none of that blood could have ever been planted.



Now, on the back gate, we will show the back gate  blood was not

planted because as I pointed out previously, a number of officers,

including the very first ones that got there, saw the blood on the

back gate that night long before Mr. Simpson had come back and long

before he had given his blood to the police.



That blood wasn't collected by the criminalist because they simply

neglected to collect it.  They were, as I told you, started at 7:00 in

the morning at Rockingham, went to Bundy, went back to Rockingham.  It

was a long day.  They didn't collect three stains on the back gate. 

But those stains were seen by officers and written down in their

notes.



Now, that blood was collected three weeks later on July 3, the three

stains on the back gate.  And the way that happened was one of the

members of the District Attorney's office was walking the scene in

connection with the criminal case with some of the detectives and he

noticed it.  And he said, well, why hasn't this blood been collected?

This is July 3 now.  And then a decision was made to send Dennis Fung

out to Bundy right away to collect the blood and it was collected and

then brought back to the lab with all the other blood.



So that's the story on the back gate.



Now, on the socks, we will prove to you that there was no planting of

the socks and there was no planting of blood on the socks.  These are

the socks that showed Mr. Simpson's blood and Nicole's blood that were

found on the rug from Simpson's bedroom.



Those socks were photographed by a police photographer at Rockingham

named Michael Wilson at 12:30 p.m. on Monday once the search warrant

had issued and the officers were allowed to go in and search and start

to collect evidence.  12:30 p.m. the socks were photographed.



There will be no witness who will testify that anybody took those

socks out of Mr. Simpson's trunk and drawer and put them down on the

rug.  And nobody will refute what Mr. Wilson saw at 12:30, one of the

first people to see the socks and took a pictures of it.



Now, those socks -- photographers job, by the way, is not to pick

anything up.  He just takes pictures.  Later on that afternoon when

Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola came back from Bundy, they began to

check the evidence inside the house and they then picked up the socks

and they collected them right around 4:00  4:30 in the afternoon.  One

of the last items that they checked, been lying on the rug all day. 

They put it with all the other evidence in the truck and brought it --

 brought it to the lab.



And again, there will be no witness who will testify that anybody

pulled those socks out or did anything else to them.



Now, I'd like to talk a bit about this EDTA which we're going to hear

about.  We will -- let me tell you what EDTA is.  First, it is a

chemical preservative that appears in a lot of things that we eat and

even appears in detergent and things like that.



It's also used in storing blood samples.  When it's used in food

stuffs, it's used in very, very tiny quantities.  When it's used for

purposes of storing blood, it 's used in larger quantity and larger

concentrations.  When it's used for purposes of storing blood, it acts

as an anticoagulant.  It prevents the blood from coagulating.  So if

you were to draw blood out of somebody's arm and put it in a test tube

with no EDTA in it, the blood will begin clotting and coagulating and

you can't use it to conduct tests.



But if you put EDTA in a -- that vial, it mixes with the blood and it

keeps it loose and viscous and you can test it.  That's the idea. 

That's why they use EDTA.  And in fact, when you draw blood, you

usually draw it right into a tube that already is treated with EDTA. 

It already has the EDTA in it.  So that the blood won't clot at all

and then it can be used for testing, for storing and so forth.



Now, we will prove that the blood on the back gate and the blood on

the socks was not planted.  Because if it had been planted from Mr.

Simpson's reference sample, if somebody, even though there's no

witness to any of this, if anybody had taken Mr. Simpson reference

sample and sprinkled blood around, it would have high concentrations

of EDTA in it.



A man by the name of Rodger Martz a scientist who works for the FBI,

and he has there a machine called a mastspectrometer which he can use

to test blood samples to see if it has EDTA in it or not.



And we will call Mr. Martz and he will testify that he examined the

blood taken from the socks and the blood taken from the back gate to

see if there was EDTA in there that could have come from a reference

sample that had EDTA in it.  That is if there were high dosages or

high concentrations of EDTA.



And Mr. Martz conducted these tests on his machine and he determined

conclusively, he will so testify, that the blood in the back gate and

on the socks could not have come from an EDTA treated test tube and

could therefore not have been planted.



There will be no evidence, in other words, that EDTA was present in

such sufficient quantities that it could have come from an EDTA tested

test tube.



If there is evidence of a tiny trace amount of EDTA, that doesn't mean

it comes from a test tube with EDTA in it that was used to store blood

because EDTA would have to be in much larger quantities.  And Martz

will testify that none of the blood he found in the socks and none of

the blood he found on the back gate had any large quantities of EDTA.



In fact, he didn't think he saw any EDTA in it at all.  If he did see

any EDTA, it would be the most tiny residual trace and you would have

to have a pronounced amount of EDTA in the blood for it to have come

from a test tube with EDTA in it.



That will establish that there was no planting of any blood.



Now, I think I've talked about the planting issue and given you some

of the evidence that we will present to show that no evidence in this

case was planted or could have been planted.  None.



I'd like to now deal with the final subject of contamination.



And what we -- what do we mean by contamination?  What did that mean? 

Well, it means this:  It means that could  all these test results

showing Mr. Simpson's blood could have come out as a result of

mistakes by which his blood mistakenly got onto the blood samples and

swatches that were tested as opposed to deliberately planted.



Could they have been contaminated somehow onto the swatches and when

the swatches were tested, that's why they showed up in Mr. Simpson's

blood.



What -- but we will call witnesses to the witness stand who will

testify that there is no conceivable way that any contamination could

have occurred such that Mr. Simpson's DNA tests could have come out,

the tests on Mr. Simpson's blood could have matched his blood, could

have matched the evidence blood under any kind of contamination

scenario.  There will be no evidence of that.  Our witnesses will

testify that it could not have happened.



One of those witnesses we'll be calling, Collin Yamauchi, the fellow

who works at the lab and did some of the tests in the LAPD lab and did

some of the tests on the blood was one of the first persons to start

working with the blood and process the blood.



And he will explain how he carefully conducted himself in working with

first Mr. Simpson's blood sample and then with all the other samples

that had been checked from the crime scene.  Now, for this

contamination theory to work, somehow Mr. Simpson's blood has got to

get on all these blood swatches that were picked up from the crime

scene and Mr. Yamauchi was the fellow who was working with all of

this, so he would have had to have somehow spilled Mr. Simpson's blood

all over the place, sort of like the person falling on a banana peel

and all the blood is spilling all over the place and getting on

everything.



And he will testify obviously that that did not happen and exactly how

he did handle the evidence swatches that  were taken from Rockingham

and Bundy and Mr. Simpson's -- What he --  blood.  What he did was

work with Mr. Simpson's blood on one end of the table using plastic,

latex blood, little Chem Wipe.



He had opened Mr. Simpson's tube to get some blood out to make a

sample.  He's honest enough to admit that a little dab of blood got on

his latex glove and the Chem Wipe actually got on the Chem wipe. When

you pop open the tube, a little of Mr. Simpson's blood got on the Chem

Wipe from the vial.



What did he do when he finished closing up the tube?  He threw away

the Chem Wipe and threw away the plastic gloves and put on new latex

gloves before he continued his work.  Then when he was finished with

Mr. Simpson's sample, he went down to the other end and worked with

all the other evidence samples and he will testify that there's no way

any of Mr. Simpson's blood got on any of the blood that was picked up

from the crime scene.



So there's no way it could have been accidentally transferred to the

crime scene samples.



Furthermore, our experts will testify that even if it did get

accidentally transferred, even if Mr. Simpson's blood did spill all

the over these samples taken from Bundy and Rockingham and the Bronco,

that would not have caused any false reading. What you would have seen

would be two persons' blood, the person who really did the killing if

it wasn't Mr. Simpson's blood at the crime scene.  His blood would

have shown up on the swatches and Mr. Simpson's blood, if it somehow

spilled on the swatches, would have shown up on the on the test.  The

test would have revealed a mixture of two person's blood.



If Mr. Simpson's blood contaminates someone else's blood, it didn't

turn it into Mr. Simpson's blood.  You still have two People's blood

on the swatch.  So our experts will testify that even from this

scenario, that never happened -- could have happened.  It still would

not have produced any false reading identifying Simpson's blood as a

result of the DNA tests.



Actually, I'll mention one other thing then I'm going conclude.



On Wednesday, the autopsies of Ron and Nicole were performed.  And as

part of those autopsies, blood was taken and put in reference samples,

one for Ron and one for Nicole.  Detective Vannatter watched the

autopsies the next day.  He came over to pick up the blood samples of

Ron and Nicole. He brought those blood samples directly to the lab and

checked them in with the criminalist to be put with all the other

evidence.



We have the booking documents to show exactly when Ronald, Nicole's

blood left the coroner's department and when it got to the lab five,

ten minutes later.  I think it's five minutes, something like that.



So there's no evidence that Mr. Vannatter took anybody's blood

anywhere and did anything with it.



Now, I believe that the evidence that we have presented to you shows a

compelling case to liability against Mr. Simpson.  And if you find Mr.

Simpson is liable for the murders of Ron and Nicole in -- this is a

civil case and the jury, what you'll be asked to do is you'll be asked

to award damages on account of his conduct.  Let me talk for a minute

or two about damages.



As you know, Mr. Goldman lost his only son and that is something that

can never be returned to him, can never be perfect justice or real

justice cause that would mean Ron comes back and Nicole comes back.



The only thing that you have in your power to do is to award damages

to compensate Fred for the loss of his relationship with his son.  The

other plaintiffs will speak to issues of damages for their own

clients, but speaking just on behalf of Fred, all that you can do is

come up with some award in your heart that you think is just or

appropriate --



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object. This is argument.



THE COURT:  You may conclude.



MR. PETROCELLI:  -- To award damages.  Now, how does one do that?  In

a case like this, what we are required to do and will do under the law

is we will present evidence to you.  You'll have Mr. Goldman take the

stand and he will testify about his relationship with his son.



And then your job will be to listen to that evidence, listen to the

kind of relationship that he had, make a determination as to the

nature and quality of that relationship and what that loss meant to

Fred.  And you will be asked to award damages in an amount that could

compensate him.  Of course, no amount could compensate him for losing

his son, but that's what we do in cases like this.



At the end of this trial, I will not stand before you and presume to

give you any kind of a number.  I will not give you any kind of an

amount. You will hear Mr. Goldman talk about his son and the life they

had together and the life that they will no longer have together and

it will be up to you to do what is just.  And that's about all you're

going to hear about from me right now.



Thank you very much.



THE COURT:  Mr. Brewer.





(Opening statements by Mr. Brewer on behalf of Plaintiff Sharon Rufo:)





MR. BREWER:  Thank you, Your Honor, defense counsel, co-plaintiff's

counsel, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, good afternoon.



JURORS:  Good afternoon.



MR. BREWER:  I'm going to start talking late in the afternoon but I

hope and expect that I'll be brief.



Let me reintroduce myself.  My name is Michael Brewer and I represent

Sharon Rufo.  Sharon is Ron's mother.



Now, as Mr. Petrocelli indicated to you during his opening remarks

when Ron died, Ron was not married.  He did not have any children. 

And out of a law in California, his heirs are his two parents, Mr.

Goldman and Sharon Rufo.



And in a case like this, that's a wrongful death case, the heirs are

joined together and proceed as the plaintiffs.  So you may hear them

being referred to during the course of this case as the plaintiffs. 

That simply means that they are the individuals that have initiated

this case. Mr. Simpson is the defendant against whom the case has been

initiated.



Petrocelli talked to you about the physical evidence that was found at

the Bundy and Rockingham crime scene.  That included evidence of the

gloves, blood drops, shoe prints.  He spoke at length about the

scientific evidence and I think that the evidence that he described to

you undeniably points to the responsibilities of Mr. Simpson.



What I'm going to do?



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to object to that argument, Your Honor, him

saying what he believes that evidence.



MR. BREWER:  That's what I believe the evidence shows.



THE COURT:  Counsel, this is opening statement and I will ask you to

restrict your comments to the opening statements rather than closing

argument.



MR. BREWER:  Thank you, Your Honor.



Ladies and gentlemen, what I will talk about for the next few moment

is a concept called consciousness of guilt.  Consciousness of guilt is

essentially looking at a person's actions and making some conclusions

based upon those actions whether they indicate that that person is

acting as an innocent person would act or acting as a guilty person

would act.



And my comments will relate to specifically to June 17, 1994 where a

number of things happened.  First, June 17, 1994, was the same date

that the Bronco chase occurred.



That was an event where Mr. Simpson was traveling down the freeway in

a Bronco with his boyhood friend, Mr. A. C.  Cowlings.



It is also the same day that Mr. Simpson drafted what is being called

the so called suicide note that I'm going to read in a little bit and

highlight for you.  But ultimately, it will either be read to you or

you'll have the opportunity to review that note yourself and make some

judgments about.  That note is exactly what Mr. Simpson's state of

mind is and what he's telling us.



I'm also going to talk a little bit about what was found in the Bronco

when Mr. Simpson was arrested on the 17th and the meaning of those

items that were found.  Exactly what it did it mean when he was found

to have a disguise and a large sum of money and his passport, what

implications, what are the reasonable inferences that we can all draw

from that information.



And I'm going to even title my discussion as it relates to the event

of June 17, "Mr. Simpson's flight from justice."



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to object.  This is argument, Your Honor.  To

say what inferences to be drawn at this point in the trial is not

appropriate.



THE COURT:  I'm going to sustain that.  I presume that's an objection.



MR. BAKER:  I think so.



THE COURT:  In part.  That sounds in the nature of an argument Mr.

Brewer.  You may outline for the jury the course of the evidence you

intend to produce and the purpose for which you are producing it.

However, to make an argument at this stage would be inappropriate.



MR. BREWER:  Absolutely, Your Honor.  Thank you very much.



Before I get into the event of June 17 a little more, let me just say

a few words about the relationship between Sharon and her son.  As

you've already heard at the time of Ron's death, he was 25 years of

age.



He wasn't married.  He lived in an apartment in Brentwood.  He worked

as a waiter in a restaurant and in fact had dreamed some day of

opening his own restaurant.  For a 25 year old young man, he had gone

so far as to actually develop somewhat of a business plan, outlining

his hopes and dreams on that business plan.



Ron moved to California when he was 18 years of age with his father

who had remarried and remained in California up until the time of his

death.



Sharon remarried after she was divorced with Mr. Goldman and in the

late 1980's, moved to a small town outside St. Louis in Missouri.



Now, you're going to hear evidence in this case that after Mr. Goldman

came to California and Sharon was in Missouri that Sharon did not see

Ron Goldman and that's absolutely true.



You're also going to hear evidence in this case that the contacts that

Sharon had with Ron Goldman after he came to California consisted of

phone contacts and sending letters to him and enclosing personal

mementos such as photographs.



Conversations that they had generally included updating one another

with respect to what was going on in each lifetime.  Ron told Sharon

about his work with United Cerebral Palsy.  He described that he had

become a proficient tennis player.  He described essentially what was

going on in his life, his dreams, hopes and expectations in 1990 and

1992.



The last contact that Sharon had with Ron, they talked about Ron's

hope, dreams and expectations and also Ron was going to appear on a

national television program called Studs.  He was exited.  He wanted

to make sure that Sharon had the channel, the date so that she could

watch to see him. And at that time, he was doing some modeling and

hoping that this may take him in the direction of that type of a

career.



Now, the evidence in this case will confirm, and you will hear Sharon

testify about how she feels about the loss of her son.  And it will

confirm the death of a child is rarely quantifiable by any measurable

standard and that you will have to evaluate her loss because it is

just that her loss, and that will be through her testimony, describing

how she feels, what her relationship was with her son and the feelings

that she has as a result of losing her son.



And in order to get to that point, what we first have to establish

with you is that Mr. Simpson is legally responsible for the death of

Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson.



Now, when Mr. Simpson returned from Chicago to his house at

Rockingham, he returned on June 13, 1994.  Now at that time, he spent

that evening at his home at Rockingham and the following day, at the

suggestion of his friend, Mr. Kardashian, who later became his

attorney, he spent that evening, which is Tuesday, June 14 through the

morning of the 17 at Mr. Kardashian's house.



Now Mr. Simpson was joined on the 15th by Paula Barbieri, someone that

he had dated.  Ms. Barbieri stayed with Mr. Simpson from the 15th to

the morning of the 17th.



Now, you're going to hear that on the morning of June 17, 1994, Mr.

Simpson was advised by his attorney, Mr. Shapiro, Mr. Kardashian that

he was going to be arrested and he was going to be arrested for the

allegations that he had killed Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson.



At that time, Paula Barbieri returned to Florida at about 8:30 after

being so advised that he was going to be arrested by Mr. Kardashian

and Mr. Shapiro.  Mr. Simpson was further advised that he was to turn

himself into the Los Angeles police department at 11 o'clock that

morning.



Now, it was only after Mr. Simpson was advised that he was going to be

arrested and that he had to turn himself in on the 17th that he sat

down and began to draft a four page document which has been referred

to as his suicide note or letter.



This document contained the final touches of his thoughts and really

is the best evidence of his feelings and sentiment as of June 17,

1994.



At that time, as the evidence will show in this case, Mr. Simpson

contemplated two things, both of which we contend the evidence will

show, were things to flee from.  What he knew was the inevitable

arrest, prosecution and perhaps, incarceration for the murders that he

committed.



The first thing that Mr. Simpson contemplated was actually committing

suicide.  And in order to do that, he had to have the means by which

to accomplish that act.  And he did.  Mr. Simpson had taken with him

from Rockingham, a handgun.  And that handgun was with him and Mr.

Kardashian house on the morning of the 17th.



Mr. Simpson's other choice was to leave the country, to flee.  In

order to do that, he also needed to -- needed the means by which he

could do that.  And he had those items with him.



He had a passport, he had a disguise which was essentially a goatee

and a mustache.  And he had a very large sum of money that was found

after he was arrested, that between he and Mr. Cowlings, he had in

excess of 8,000 dollars.



Now, all of this evidence, we contend, will lead to the notion that

Mr. Simpson recognizing that he was going to be arrested and

prosecuted, was taking measures in order to flee the inevitable.



Now, let me talk for a moment about the disguise that was found on Mr.

Simpson's person and in his car, in the Bronco when he was arrested.



Mr. Simpson testified at his deposition that never in his life has he

ever worn a disguise to conceal his identity.



Never in his life has he worn a disguise to conceal his identity.  At

most, he has worn a hat and sunglasses, but not to conceal his

identity.



There will be witnesses in this case that will tell you that Mr.

Simpson loved his celebrate status.  He loved to be recognized.  He

loved the perks associated with being recognized.  And that the last

thing that he would want to do was to do anything that would conceal

his identity as O.J.  Simpson.



Notwithstanding that evidence, you will find that when he was arrested

on the 17, in a piece of luggage that he had with him, he had a

disguise that he claims, and will claim during this trial that he

purchased because he wanted to wear it to an amusement park so that he

would not be recognized because he wanted to go with his children.



Now, one of the things that we will show you during the course of this

case that relates to this consciousness of guilt is the actual suicide

note and its content.  We believe the evidence will show that the

content of this note establish a man that is riddled with guilt and

filled with denial.



Let me just read to you a few of the excerpt highlights, a few of the

excerpt so that you'll see what I mean.



In the suicide note, Mr. Simpson in talking about a 1989 domestic

violence incident with his ex-wife Nicole where he beat her he says

the following.  In connection with that incident, quote, "I took the

heat because that is what I was supposed to do," unquote.



Now, you're going to see through the evidence, Mr. Simpson doesn't

state anything about regrets, sorrow, shame, because he beat his wife.

 He states denial, denying -- the deniability that he took the heat

because that was what he was supposed to do.



Also in talking about the 1989 incident and the relationship with his

ex-wife, Mr. Simpson's so called suicide note refers to himself.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object to his characterization of

this note as that, that's argument.



THE COURT:  You may read the note.



MR. BAKER:  I'm not objecting to him reading the note, it's his

characterization of this.



MR. BREWER:  Let's, for the sake of argument, let's call it a

document.  In this document, that I'm explaining to you, Mr. Simpson

refers to himself in connection with talking about this 1989 domestic

violence incident wherein he beat his wife.  In talking about the

relationship, he refers to himself as a battered spouse, as a battered

boyfriend. Deniability, denial.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, again this is just argument.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. BREWER:  The evidence in this case will show that this document,

this so-called suicide note, illustrates that Mr. Simpson is mourning,

not the loss of Nicole, but mourning his own predicament.



Let me give you a few examples.



MR. BAKER:  This is argument again, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. BREWER:  Let me give you a few examples.



MR. BAKER:  I object that -- he can just read the note but examples

when he gives a preface is argument.



MR. BREWER:  Your Honor, I'm offering -- the purpose for which the

evidence is being --



THE COURT:  Well, you may do that but you are arguing rather than

stating a purpose for which you are giving it.  If you persist in this

manner, I am going to terminate it.



MR. BREWER:  Thank you, Your Honor.



Mr. Simpson states the following in his note, quote, no matter what

the outcome, people will look and point, unquote.



He also ends this document, this letter by stating the following,

quote, please think of the real O.J. not this lost person.



Now, it is our contention through this evidence that this illustrates

Mr. Simpson's consciousness.



MR. BAKER:  Argument, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. BREWER:  Mr. Simpson's consciousness of guilt.



After Mr. Simpson completed this letter, he handed it to Robert

Kardashian.  Now at the time, at Mr. Kardashian's house, let me give

you a little bit of information about the way the house is laid out.



It is upstairs.  There is an office which is a working office for Mr.

Kardashian who at the time was a lawyer slash business person.



Also upstairs was Mr. Kardashian daughter's bedroom which is the

bedroom that Mr. Simpson stayed in between the 14 and 17.  Again, the

17 being the date that he was arrested.



Now, after Mr. Simpson handed Mr. Kardashian this note, Mr. Simpson

had a conversation with Mr. Cowlings.  This conversation occurred

after Mr. Simpson was told that he was going to be arrested and that

he had to turn himself in later that morning.



In this conversation, it was agreed that Mr. Simpson and Mr. Cowlings

would leave Mr. Kardashian's house, and according to Mr. Simpson, that

they would go to the -- to Nicole's grave.



Now, at this time, Mr. Simpson left with Mr. Cowlings.  Mr. Simpson

did not tell anyone, including Mr. Shapiro, Mr. Kardashian or anyone

else at that home that he was leaving, despite the fact that he knew,

number 1, that he was going to be arrested that day and that number 2,

that he was supposed to turn himself in later that morning.



Now, Mr. Simpson will testify that they went down to Nicole's grave

which is south of Laguna Nigel and that at that time they couldn't get

into the cemetery because there was a police vehicle blocking the

entrance.



They therefore sat in Mr. Cowlings vehicle.  Mr. Simpson contemplated

suicide at that time, but did not obviously follow through with that

act.



Instead.  Shortly after they arrived there Mr. Cowlings and Mr.

Simpson turned on the radio and determined for the first time that

they were wanted by the police that there is an all point bulletin for

the arrest of O.J. Simpson.



It was only after Mr. Simpson learned this information that he and Mr.

Cowlings headed back north, towards Rockingham where they were

eventually identified and then followed by a number of different

police vehicles.  This has been commonly referred to as the slow speed

chase.  This is how it came about.



When they got back to Rockingham Mr. Simpson was arrested.  The bag

that he had taken with him in Mr. Cowling's vehicle was seized and it

was served.



To say a few things about this bag, this bag was what Mr. Simpson will

refer to as a grip -- it's a back -- A black luggage bag that he had

taken with him when he left his home in Rockingham and went over to

Mr. Kardashian's house.



Now Mr. Simpson will tell you that when he left that morning, he went

back up to the bedroom, Mr. Kardashian daughter's bedroom, grabbed his

grip or his piece of luggage, put that in the vehicle of Mr. Cowlings

and they headed south to the cemetery where Nicole was buried.



When the police searched that bag later in the afternoon, they found

the following items: Mr. Simpson's passport; a disguise, it's a beard

and the goatee that I told you about; $8700 in cash which was on the

person of Mr. Cowlings.  That Mr. Simpson had given Mr. Cowlings

earlier that day.  They also found a set of keys which the police

later determined were the keys to Nicole's property.



Now, Mr. Simpson has testified in deposition that as of June 12, 1994,

he did not have any keys to Nicole's property and that when he was

arrested and his luggage was seized on the 17, it was determined that

Mr. Simpson did in fact have keys to Nicole's property.



And more importantly, as Mr. Petrocelli described to you during his

opening remarks, the physical evidence indicated that the killer

probably entered and exited through the rear gate.  Now, this is a

rear gate that requires a key to get in and to get out.



The keys that were taken from Mr. Simpson on June 17, 1994 fit that

gate.  That would have permitted Mr. Simpson  and he agrees, to

Nicole's property through the rear gate.



Now Mr. Simpson will testify that the event that I have described to

you on June 17 were due to the pain that he felt and did feel

associated with the loss of his ex-wife Nicole.



He will also explain to you, his explanation with respect to why he

had a passport and goatee, a large sum of money on his person at the

time that he was arrested.



We believe that the evidence in this case will show that these

explanations are not plausible.  We believe that the evidence in this

case will show that Mr. Simpson, on the 17th, knew and was aware that

he was going to be arrested.  We believe that the evidence in this

case will show that all of Mr. Simpson's actions on June 17 were an

attempt to avoid what he knew was going to be the inevitable

prosecution and incarceration of him for these murders.



We believe in summary that this evidence will show that Mr. Simpson's

actions were done in furtherance of his flight and that they were done

to avoid what he believed was his public humiliation and stripping of

his image.



And the evidence that we will offer will be the best evidence of that

and that is Mr. Simpson's own words.  The words that are contained in

this document, the words from Mr. Simpson's own thoughts and own

mouth.



Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate conclusion that we expect

to draw from the evidence that we will introduce in this case,

principally the suicide note, the chase, Mr. Simpson's suicidal

actions that day, is take Mr. Simpson was trying to preserve the image

of O.J. Simpson, not the person who we now met on June 12, 1994. 

Because that person, as the evidence will show, is a cold blooded

killer who murdered Ron Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson.  Thank you

very much, appreciate it.



THE COURT:  Okay.  Five minutes, ladies and gentlemen.





(Recess.)



(Jurors resume their respective seats.)





THE COURT:  Mr. Kelly, you may proceed.





(Opening argument by Mr. Kelly on behalf of Plaintiff, Louis Brown:)





MR. KELLY:  Thank you.  May it please the court, ladies and gentlemen

of the jury.



First of all, I could have caught you earlier.  I could have caught

you late.  I'm catching you late today.  I'm going to ask you to stick

with me a little bit.  First of all, as a reminder, my name is John

Kelly.  As a mentioned to you before, I represent the estate of Nicole

Brown Simpson and working with me also is Paul Callan, you'll see

working with me here during the course of the trial.



Now today you've heard a lot about DNA, RFLP, PCR, DNA, EDTA and lot

of other terminology. What I'm going to try to do now is put all that

aside and get focused a little bit more on people in relationships.



Both Petrocelli, Mr. Brewer have given you a detailed overview of both

the quality and the quantity of the evidence you're going to hear in

this case.



With that aspect having been addressed already, what I want to do is

just basically look at what the evidence will demonstrate in terms of

the nature of the relationship between Nicole Brown Simpson and Mr.

Simpson.  Namely, the ebbs and flows, the good and the bad.  The

passion that was there, the rejection that was exhibited and the

irreversible deterioration of the relationship with which ultimately

led to murder.



During this trial you're also going to hear a lot about Nicole. 

You're going to hear about her as a mother, you're going to hear about

her as a daughter.  As a sister, as a friend, and as a wife. People

loved Nicole.  Her family loved her, her friends loved her.  She loved

them.  Men, women and children loved her.  She loved them.



They were black people that loved her, and black people that she loved

as well as white.  And so many people were deprived of the -- of a

substantial and irreplacable part of their lives when she left us. 

And with regard to the evidence in this case, as I indicated to you,

I'm not going to put you through revisiting the whole thing.



But I think as you sit there, what I'm going to ask you to do is keep

the simplest and clearest of all evidence in mind at all times.



And I just want to mention a couple of things again.  One of them is

the Brown leather, extra large Aris leather, light glove that was

found at Bundy on 12, 13, AM on June 13, 1994.



The second thing that was seen there right as a first officer arrived

on the scene were those bloody impressions and the bloody foot prints

made by the size 12 Bruno Magli Lorenzo, style Silga soled shoes

leaving the premise and leaving the murder scene.



The third thing to keep in mind are those drops.



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to ask the -- object to him asking the jury to

keep anything in mind.  This is opening statements.



THE COURT:  Overruled.  Go ahead and finish your opening statement.



MR. KELLY:  The third thing I'd ask you to keep in mind are the drops

of blood of Mr. Simpson leaving the scene.  The final thing when Mr.

Simpson returned from Chicago, he had cuts and gouges on his left

hand. Keeping that in mind, what you will see put into evidence in

this case is photographs of Mr. Simpson wearing those identical Brown

Aris leather light extra large gloves as well as Nicole's receipt in

purchasing them prior to the murders.



You will also see put into evidence of this case, Mr. Simpson wearing

those exact Bruno Magli Lorenzo style Silga soled shoes, photographs

taken prior to these murders.  These photographs that evidence is not

planted, it is not tainted.  It is not contaminated.



You will see the gloves on Mr. Simpson's hands and the shoes on his

feet before these murders occurred.  And I will ask you to just keep

that evidence in mind and consider it in the context of Mr. Simpson's

unique strength and agility and his previously exhibited rage.



You will also hear during the course of the trial that Mr. Simpson had

the unique opportunity to commit these murders.



He and Nicole were alternating every other weekend the care of their

two children.  And on Saturday and Sunday nights at Nicole's house,

that is when her housekeeper would not be home on Sunday nights when

these murders occurred on a Sunday night also.



The second thing is, and you will hear this from Mr. Simpson's

testimony himself that he had called Nicole's house, Bundy at

approximately 9 p.m. on June 12, 1994.  And he knew that Nicole was

home at that time and that the children were getting ready to go to

sleep.



You've also heard that Mr. Simpson had the keys to her property and

that he did not have to leave for Chicago until after 11 p.m. that

night.



You've heard all the other evidence also as if Mr. Simpson left a note

pinned to these two bodies indicating that he committed these two

murders.



MR. BAKER:  I object to that.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. BAKER:  I request that be stricken from the record.



THE COURT:  It is stricken.



MR. KELLY:  As you heard before, we are not required to prove why Mr.

Simpson committed these murders.  No one can explain the most complex

integrate workings of the human mind, especially one that snaps in

that fashion.



But I'm sure, as you people sit here with your collective human

sensibility, you're going to ask that very question why these murders

occurred.  And I want to address that.



I will suggest to you that the evidence you will hear during the

course of this case indicates that the answer lies in Mr. Simpson's

own larger than life ego that was publicly pierced its core, not once

but twice by Nicole Brown Simpson.  In that -- in June, 1994, after

she had left him for the second time, that it was his frustration, his

growing loss of control and his exclusion from her life in that family

that resulted in these murders.



You're going to hear testimony of a complicated dynamic and passional

relationship of extremes between these two human beings.



And no one is going to question whether these two people loved each

other for more than a decade.  And when things were good between them,

they were really good.  But when things were bad between these people,

they were very bad also.  And like many good relationships, and

despite the good qualities, it was fatally flawed.  You are going to

hear that Mr. Simpson was possessive of Nicole.  He was controlling of

Nicole.  And he constantly required public adulation.



On the contrary, Nicole Brown Simpson was devoted, loyal, a very

private person and committed primarily to her family above all else.



And because of these fundamental differences in their relationship, it

slowly and irrevocably started to unravel.  The passion died and the

anger, the hostility and the resentment grew.



What we'll do is we'll start with the look at the outer veneer of Mr.

Simpson.  The charismatic individual, the impeccable dress

irresistible smile.



But then the evidence and the testimony will take you beneath the

polished veneer to a sometimes dark and a violent an frightening world

of uncontrollable rage.  It was a world that Nicole Brown Simpson

lived in and tried to leave.  And she was finally able to do so but in

a time in a place and in a manner selected by Mr. Simpson.  Not

herself.



What you are going to hear is evidence that is going to demonstrate

that Mr. Simpson did have the propensity, the mind set and the

requisite disposition to commit such a heinous act as these murders

were, even with the children there in the house at that time.



Mr. Simpson and Nicole met in Beverly Hills in 1977.  She had just

moved out of her paraphernalia's house down in Orange county and was

working up in a restaurant in Beverly Hills.  Nicole was just 18 years

old.  A teenager, a kid.  She was a beautiful young girl and she was

full of life.  She was also down to earth.  She was casual, she was

fun, she loved being with her family, her sisters, and she had good

friends.



Likewise, Mr. Simpson was older.  He was 30 years old and he was

bigger than life.  He was a super star on the football field and he

was a darling of corporate America.  Mr. Simpson was married at that

time and had two children.  But that marriage you'll hear, ended in

separation and then divorce.



But by all accounts, when Mr. Simpson first met  Nicole, he was -- it

was literally love at first sight.  This was a passionate and

immediate bonding of the two.  You'll also hear there was a strong

relationship, that it was kept private during Mr. Simpson's pending

separation and divorce, but that when that divorce became final,

Nicole moved into his residence at Rockingham.  And it was there that

Nicole lived with Mr. Simpson for approximately five years during this

period of time, up through 1984, where they lived as a couple and

lived without children.



During this period of time, going up through 1984, you'll hear of

confrontational incidents between them during this period of time,

some more commonplace that you people might be able to identify with.



You'll hear about Nicole repeatedly, after being in fights with Mr.

Simpson, packing up her belongings, throwing them in the car, and

going back home to mom and dad and her sisters.



You're also going to hear some strange things.  For example, you're

going to hear all of Nicole's clothes being thrown out of an apartment

window, scattered and strewn over parked cars and on the street, up in

San Francisco.



But in spite of these instances, these flare-ups, Nicole loved Mr.

Simpson.  She wanted to marry him; she wanted to have children.  But

at that time, Mr. Simpson did not want to get in another legally

binding relationship, and insisted on a prenuptial agreement before

they could ever get married.



On the other hand, Nicole Brown Simpson wanted children, but she

didn't want them unless she was married.



These differences were ironed out; the problems were solved, and these

two were married on February 2, 1985.  Now, this marriage between

Nicole Brown Simpson and Mr. Simpson represented everything that could

be good in our society.



You had two families, one black, one white, accepting each other.



Mr. Simpson was a super celebrity, and Nicole was as sweet an as

beautiful as they come.



They were constantly surrounded by their friends, whether it was at

Rockingham or whether they were on vacations.



And within four years, they had two beautiful children, Sydney and

Justin, who were growing up in a color-blind world.



Just prior to them getting married and after they were married, the

complexion of the relationship changed. And when they did get married,

and Nicole was pregnant, after she had children, Mr. Simpson's

controlling personality took over.



You are then going to hear of incidents that exhibited unacceptable

behavior for a husband, for a father, for a man.  You're going to

hear, for example, of the time Mr. Simpson broke the windshield of

Nicole's car with a baseball bat.



You're also going to hear on several other occasions where Mr. Simpson

was demeaning and abusive to Nicole in the presence of others.



And you have to ask yourself, Mr. Simpson has the temerity and the

gall and the lack of self-control to act this way in public.



MR. BAKER:  I'm going to object to this argument, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. KELLY:  We need not speculate as to what may have gone on in

private between Nicole Brown Simpson and Mr. Simpson, because on the

early morning hours of New Year's Day, 1989, Nicole Brown Simpson

opened the iron gates to the entrance of Rockingham and gave us a look

inside.



And this is what the evidence will show and the testimony will show as

to what happened on that particular day:



At approximately 3:30 a.m. on that morning, police officer Edwards

responded to a 911 emergency radio call at 310 North Rockingham, which

was the Simpson estate.



As police officer Edwards pulled up to the gate, he exited the car and

pushed the electric call-box button by the front gate.



First, the housekeeper answered.  A female said, "Everything is fine;

the police are not needed."  But Edwards told her that he needed to

speak to the woman that made the 911 call and he was not leaving until

he did.



Officer Edwards' presence of mind to stay there then may have saved

Nicole's life that night.



MR. BAKER:  I object.  Move that be stricken from the record.



THE COURT:  Overruled.



MR. KELLY:  At the same time that this was going on, Nicole came

running out of some bushes near the house, wearing only a bra and some

sweat-type pants, with some mud down the right leg.  Nicole then ran

across the driveway to the post containing the gate release button. 

She collapsed on the post, pushing the button several times.



All the time while she was doing this, she was yelling, "He's going to

kill me.  He's going to kill me."  And as she said this, the gate

opened, and Nicole ran out to police officer Edwards.



Edwards asked Nicole who was going to kill her, and she replied, O.J.



Police officer Edwards, not knowing that he was at the home of

Orenthal James Simpson, asked Nicole if she meant O.J. Simpson, the

football player, and she said yes.



Edwards will testify that at that time when Nicole ran out to him and

was yelling, he's going to kill me, he's going to kill me.  He will

testify that Nicole's face was badly beaten, with a cut lip, a

swollen, black and left eye and cheek, and that Nicole had a hand

imprint on her neck.



Edwards asked Nicole what had happened to her, and she replied that

Mr. Simpson had slapped and kicked her.



Nicole was shaking.  Police officer Edwards gives her his uniform

jacket and puts her in the patrol car.  As she was interviewed by

Edwards' partner, she said, "You never do anything about him; you just

talk to him and then you leave."



She indicated to the police officers that she wanted him arrested; she

wanted Mr. Simpson arrested, and she wanted him out of there so she

could get back to her kids.



At this time, while Nicole was in the car, Mr. Simpson came out to the

gate just inside the yard and started yelling.  Even with the police

there and with the two small children upstairs in this house, Mr.

Simpson could not control his rage.



He screamed at Nicole and he screamed at police officer Edwards. 

After, when Simpson stopped yelling, Edwards told Mr. Simpson that

Nicole wanted to press charges for his beating her.  Mr. Simpson lost

his temper again and started yelling that he did not beat her up, that

he simply pushed her out of the bedroom, nothing more.



Edwards indicated that he could clearly see the evidence of a beating

on Nicole's face and that he was going to have to arrest Mr. Simpson.



And Mr. Simpson's response to that was, the police have been out here

before, and now you're going arrest me for this?  This is a family

matter. Why do you want to make a big deal out of it?  We can handle

it ourselves.



Because Mr. Simpson was only wearing a robe, police officer Edwards

gave him the courtesy of allowing him to go back inside the house by

himself and change before he's going to be arrested and taken down to

the station.



While this was going on, the housekeeper came out to the car, tried to

pull Nicole out of the car and told Nicole, don't do this.  Come back

inside now.



Police officer Edwards told the housekeeper she was interfering with

an investigation and to get out of there.  The housekeeper went back

inside the house.



Perhaps three minutes after the housekeeper then left, police officer

Edwards saw Mr. Simpson, now dressed, peek over the wall. Mr. Simpson

again complained that Edwards was the only one to make a big deal out

of something like this.



Edwards once again told Mr. Simpson that, based on Nicole's visible

injuries, he was going to have to arrest him.



When Edwards' supervisor then arrived on the scene, Mr. Simpson

disappeared.  As Edwards explained the situation to his supervisor, he

saw Mr. Simpson get in his Bentley, go out the other gate, and take

off at 35 to 45 miles an hour.



He fled the scene at this time after this incident.  The police

officers searched for a period of time for Mr. Simpson, but they could

not find him.



Nicole declined to go downtown and press charges at that time, or

receive medical treatment or have photographs taken downtown.  All she

wanted to do was get back to her kids.



What Edwards did was get her to a local police station and take three

photographs of her, her physical appearance reflecting the way she

appeared when he dove up that morning.  And you'll see those three

photographs.



Nicole was returned home, and a second call came in to the police

again, another 911 call from Nicole, saying that Simpson had returned

to the residence again.  The police went out there again. They waited

up the street, hoping to catch Mr. Simpson.  After a period of time

when they didn't see anybody, they checked the house again.  Nicole

told them that he had fled a second time.



I'd like to talk about some of the implications of this.



First of all, it's quite clear from the evidence --



MR. BAKER:  This is argument, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. KELLY:  The evidence will reflect, first of all, and the testimony

will reflect -- and you've heard already that the police officers on

the scene tolerated Mr. Simpson's screaming at them and screaming at

others in the situation.



MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, I'm going to object. This is just argument.



THE COURT:  It's opening statement, Counsel. This is not closing

argument.



MR. KELLY:  I understand that, Your Honor.  I'm indicating what the

testimony will be with regard to this incident.



MR. BAKER:  He's just arguing the case, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  Mr. Baker, I heard you the first time.



Restrict your statements to an opening statement, Counsel.



MR. KELLY:  Yes, Your Honor.



What you will hear is the LAPD didn't push Nicole to press charges at

this time; they didn't publicize the occurrence, and they did nothing

to get Mr. Simpson at that time.



Likewise, did Mr. Simpson respond in kind to the courtesies and the

deference shown him? Absolutely not.  He took off in his car.



And I think what you have to keep in your minds on top of is Nicole

hiding in the bushes, half naked.



MR. BAKER:  Objection.  Argument.



THE COURT:  Sustained.



MR. KELLY:  After the police left the second time, you'll hear how

Nicole was left alone to care for Sydney and Justin.  You will hear

that what Mr. Simpson did this day, on New Year's Day, was not to

return to the house.  What he did was, he went to the Rose Bowl to

watch a football game with his friends.  And in doing that, you will

hear that although Mr. Simpson may not have been concerned about

Nicole, Mr. Simpson's best friend was.  And you will hear testimony to

this effect.



It was A. C. Cowlings who kept an eye on Nicole that day, who worried

about her, who checked on her well-being.  And it was A. C. Cowlings

who, after watching Nicole's face swell and darken with bruises, took

her to the emergency room that New Year's Day evening, for fear she

had a concussion.



And Mr. Cowlings, like Mr. Simpson, was a professional football

player.  And you will hear from his own testimony that it was his own

familiarity with the injuries, that of bruises to the head, that can

cause -- that gave rise to his concern for Nicole. This was no pushing

or shoving incident; this was a beating.



This incident in 1989 was the beginning of the end for this

relationship.



There is no doubt that the fear and humiliation that Nicole suffered

that day was permanently impressed in her mind.  You'll see letters

from Nicole to in Simpson in 1990 and 1991 expressing exactly that.



And there's no indication that Mr. Simpson ever struck Nicole again,

physically struck her again after this date, until June of 1994. But

you'll also see evidence that after this incident in '89, there was a

written agreement entered into that Mr. Simpson's antenuptial

agreement would be voided if he ever struck her again.



Your Honor, is this a good time.



THE COURT:  All right.



MR. KELLY:  Thank you.



THE COURT:  Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there was inquiry

of the clerk or bailiff when the court will be dark.



At the outset, when we went through hardship, we gave you a schedule

on the back of the hardship declaration.  The only substantial changes

I would see would be the Thanksgiving holiday and Christmas holidays. 

If you have some definite plans with regards to Thanksgiving that is

going to take you out of town the day before Thanksgiving, or you're

going to have any difficulty coming back by Sunday night following

Thanksgiving, we'll not change the schedule.



Originally we scheduled November 27 through December 2 as

Thanksgiving, allowing for long-distance travel that family reunions

may call for.  I know it's difficult to get air flights both out and

back from Los Angeles.



Do any of the jurors have those plans in mind?



JURORS:  (Nod negatively.)



THE COURT:  Nobody?



JURORS:  (Nod negatively.)



THE COURT:  You have plans that --



JUROR 78:  They're tentative.  I didn't know what dates.



THE COURT:  Is it out-of-town traveling?



JUROR 78:  Yes, sir.



THE COURT:  Would that be by air or...



JUROR 78:  Plane.



THE COURT:  Would you prefer that it not be changed?



JUROR 78:  They took the hardship forms back from us, and at the time,

we didn't even know.



THE COURT:  The 27TH would be the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, and

the 2nd would be the Monday following Thanksgiving.  If you need those

as travel days, I will leave it as court recess days.



JUROR 78:  The Tuesday after Thanksgiving?



THE COURT:  No.



JUROR 78:  Oh.  Monday.  That would be fine.



THE COURT:  That would be the Wednesday preceding -- before

Thanksgiving and the Monday following Thanksgiving.  So that would be

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday.  Okay.

Everybody understand that?



JURORS:  (Nod affirmatively.)



THE COURT:  I'll have the bailiff give you a written schedule.



And then assuming were's still in session at Christmas, that would be

December 23 through January 3.  Okay.



Other than that, the holidays would be Veteran's Day.  The courtroom

-- the whole court building is dark.  That's November 11.



And should this case go into January, January 20 is Dr. Martin Luther

King holiday.  The court building is dark also on that date.



JUROR 266:  What about election?



THE COURT:  Election day is?



JUROR 266:  It's the 5th.  It's the 4th.



JUROR:  5Th.



THE COURT:  It's the 5th.  We can adjourn half a day, if you like. 

Normally the voting places are open, I think, till eight o'clock, so I

would like to go the whole day.



JUROR 266:  That's fine.



THE COURT:  Okay.  All right.  Then, we shall see you tomorrow morning

at 8:30.  You're excused. Don't talk about the case with anyone; don't

form or express any opinion; don't do any research.



Thank you.



Counsel, would you remain.





(The following proceedings were held in open court, outside the

presence of the jury.)





THE COURT:  In terms of scheduling, Mr. Baker, are you going to make

an opening statement, or are you going to reserve it until it's time

you put your defense on?  You may do that if you like.



MR. BAKER:  Well, I'll be making an opening statement, Your Honor.



THE COURT:  And with regards to the deferring of the issue that I did,

let me just simply state that should it result in the court ruling

permitting that evidence, having foreclosure from referring to that at

the present time, you may at such time before you present your defense

and make opening statement in that regard.



MR. BAKER:  Can I just address one issue with you to the court?



THE COURT:  Yes.



MR. BAKER:  Petrocelli now, in his opening statement, has told the

jury at least three things that come from Mark Fuhrman's lips:  He

told him Mark Fuhrman was asleep.  Only Mark Fuhrman can testify to

that.



He told them Mark Fuhrman alone found the glove.  Only Mark Fuhrman

can testify to that.



He told them Mark Fuhrman found the Rockingham glove alone.  And he

testified, or he told the jurors, that Fuhrman was the interrogator of

Kato Kaelin, and that was after the testimony.  And this is after the

other Detective had left.



I think he has opened the door to the issue, and I think I ought to be

able to do it in my opening.



I will submit, Your Honor, Mr. Petrocelli was very careful, Your

Honor, to only confine my remarks about Mr. Fuhrman to evidence that

will be elicited from witnesses other than Mr. Fuhrman in every single

case.  For example, Mark Fuhrman was asleep.  He was called by officer

Ron Phillips, and Ron Phillips will so testify.



THE COURT:  Okay.  Order remains.



(At 4:35 P.M., an adjournment was taken until Thursday, October 24,

1996, at 8:30 A.M.)

</PRE>

<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>

<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All

Rights Reserved.">

<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without

permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">

<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute

legal advice." BORDER="0">

</BODY>

</HTML>



</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>WT08-B40-12</DOCNO>
<DOCOLDNO>IA022-000243-B009-87</DOCOLDNO>
<DOCHDR>
http://www.courttv.com:80/casefiles/simpson/transcripts/oct/oct24.html 199.29.97.40 19970108054240 text/html 166353
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Server: Netscape-Communications/1.1
Date: Wednesday, 08-Jan-97 05:52:13 GMT
Last-modified: Wednesday, 30-Oct-96 21:39:27 GMT
Content-length: 166157
Content-type: text/html
</DOCHDR>
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Court TV Casefiles: O.J. Simpson Transcript (10/24/96)</TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="#FFFFFF" TEXT="#000000" LINK="#000080" VLINK="#DD0000">
<A HREF="/map/casefiles.map"><IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/casefiles.gif" ISMAP BORDER=0></A>
<BR CLEAR=ALL>
<P>PUBLIC NOTICE RE: ELECTRONIC TRANSCRIPT COPY CERTIFIABILITY<BR>
WARNING: This electronic transmission of the official transcript of proceedings is deemed certifiable only to the extent that the reader of this message is viewing a first-generation authorized transmission. All subsequent transmissions of this first-generation electronic copy and all copies printed therefrom are unauthorized and non-certifiable, and the Official Reporter assumes no responsibility for consequences stemming from the use of such unauthorized non-certifiable copy. Responsibility for such consequences is that of the person or organization whose use of a non-certifiable unauthorized transmission or printed copy creates those consequences, including civil liability arising therefrom. No portion of this file may be redistributed or resold without permission, pursuant to California Government Code Section 69954(d). Authorized certifiable transcript copies are protected by digital signature. If you would like to purchase an official transcript of the proceedings, contact NetCourt, 1316 Harding Place, Charlotte, North Carolina, 28204 or <A HREF="http://www.internetcourt.com/">click here</A>.</P>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<PRE>
REPORTER'S DAILY TRANSCRIPT
OCTOBER 24, 1996

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES


SHARON RUFO, ET AL., N/A, PLAINTIFFS,

VS.

ORENTHAL JAMES SIMPSON, ET AL., DEFENDANTS.



SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1996
8:53 AM

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ
HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)


(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

THE COURT:  Morning.

JURORS:  Good morning.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Morning, Your Honor.

THE COURT:  Juror 186, with regard to your note, I would order you not
to, because it's been my experience that you will not be left alone.

JUROR 186:  Okay.

THE COURT:  You may resume.

MR. KELLY:  Thank you.  Good morning.

JURORS:  Morning.


(Opening statements by Mr. Kelly on behalf of Plaintiff Louis Brown)


MR. KELLY:  Almost three years to the date of the horrific 1989
experience that we talked of yesterday, the New Year's Day morning
incident, Nicole, with her children, ups and leaves Mr. Simpson. This
is in early January, 1992.  This was done with little notice.  Nicole
gets her own house in Brentwood on Gretna Green, and starts a new life
for herself.

What you will then hear is that Mr. Simpson acted in a most peculiar
manner.  You will hear how even his friends were embarrassed in the
way he conducted himself.

You will hear about Mr. Simpson's obsessiveness, his pursuit of
Nicole, how he's phoning friends and family constantly, discussing how
to get her back, and all the while, wanting to know her every move.

Prior to January, 1992, Mr. Simpson would socialize with the Browns. 
And he and Judy Brown, in particular, Nicole's mother, were on
friendly terms. And you'll hear there was no real special relationship
between them.

However, you'll hear that after Nicole left Mr. Simpson in January
1992, the defendant started calling Mrs. Brown every single day.  And
many times, she -- he would call her five, six, seven times a day,
discussing Nicole, wanting to know why she left him, wanting to know
how he could get her back, wanting to know what she was doing on that
day, who she was with, where she was,

You'll hear testimony that there even were times that Judy Brown would
act -- well, she might be in the kitchen cooking dinner or something
-- she would actually put down the telephone while Mr. Simpson was on
the other end, talking about Nicole, and just leave it there for five
and ten minutes at a time, and she would pick it up again and Mr.
Simpson would still be talking, not knowing that Judy Brown had even
put the phone down.

It shows the extent of his mindset and obsessiveness with these phone
calls.

You'll also hear that there were even times when Mr. Simpson would
pick up the phone and would call Judy Brown at night and tell her that
he was in his car, parked out in front of Nicole's house on Gretna
Green, just sitting there at night, thinking about Nicole.

After a while, though, you'll hear also that Mr. Simpson worked
through this portion of the relationship.

Nicole started to date other men.  And in May 1992, Mr. Simpson
started dating someone else, Paula Barbieri.  Mr. Simpson's
obsessiveness for Nicole waned, the pursuit ceased, and the divorce
that was imminent was finalized in October 1992.  They went their own
ways for a while, Nicole and Mr. Simpson.

Now, as we move into 1993, the relationship took on a different
dimension altogether. You will hear that Nicole decided that life as a
family for she and her children was more important than anything that
may have happened in the past between she and Mr. Simpson.  Nicole now
began calling Mr. Simpson, stopping by, sending letters, and even
videos of she and the children.

And at this point, Mr. Simpson resisted her overtures.  However, over
a period of time, to about May 1993, Mr. Simpson relented, went back
to Nicole, and they started dating again in May 1993. Although Nicole
continued to live separately at her house at Gretna Green with the
children, they started to do more as a family again.

And there's a period of time here for about six months or so that
things were status quo between the two of them; they were acting as a
family; they were dating a couple times a week.

And then things turned ugly again.  And you're going to hear what
happened on October 25, 1993.

Mr. Simpson was over at Nicole's place on Gretna Green, and the
subject of a former boyfriend of Nicole's came up.  And just like in
1989, Mr. Simpson went into an uncontrollable rage.  When this first
happened, Mr. Simpson went home and he called Nicole, and the argument
that had started her house continued over the phone.  And Nicole hung
up the phone.  The calls kept coming, so what she did was, she left
the phone off the hook.

Mr. Simpson was being ignored by Nicole.

What he did was, he got into his car and he drove over to Gretna
Green.  At that time, Nicole was frightened, scared, panicked, and
immediately called 911 when she heard Mr. Simpson pull up to the
house.

You people have the opportunity yourselves to hear Nicole and to hear
Mr. Simpson on this night when he arrived over at Gretna Green. You'll
hear the dark side of Mr. Simpson, the irrepressible anger that he
exhibited at this time. And just like in 1989, you will hear also his
total disregard for law enforcement when they showed up there.  You
will hear his total disregard for the children that were in the house
at that time.  You'll hear his rage.

You'll also hear the fear in Nicole's voice, the panic of the woman
who had previously been beaten by this powerful man with his huge
hands, the man who, you will hear, is kicking down her door during the
course of this 911 call.

You'll also hear Nicole tell the 911 operator, "I don't want to stay
in the house.  He's going to beat the shit out of me."

Fortunately, Nicole was never struck by Mr. Simpson, and she stays on
the line with the 911 operator until the police arrive.

And Kato Kaelin, who was staying out in the guest house, was there
also, had shown up at the same time.

But once again, you're going to hear also the deference shown to Mr.
Simpson by the LAPD after this incident.

Nicole and Mr. Simpson still keep dating on and off, but the
relationship is doomed now for a second time, after the second
incident.

In January 1994, Nicole moves out of Gretna Green and moves around the
corner to a condominium on Bundy Street, and begins living there.

Going to April, now, of 1994, you're going hear that Nicole and Mr.
Simpson and the children went on an abbreviated vacation in Cabo San
Lucas.  You're going to hear that the relationship just wasn't working
at that time, and after this vacation, that ended it.  It was just
April 1st to the 3rd of 1994.

Mr. Simpson went onto Puerto Rico, where he was filming a movie, and
Nicole went back to her home on Bundy with her children.

On May 1, Mr. Simpson returns from Puerto Rico.  At this point, the
relationship between he and Nicole goes into a free-fall and
irreversible downward spiral.

You'll hear on Saturday, May 8, which was Sean, Denise Brown's little
boy, was his first communion down in Laguna, that Mr. Simpson drove
down there to keep a date with Nicole that evening.

You'll hear that they fought, fought in a very bitter manner before
they even went out on that date.  You will also hear that Nicole left
the children with her parents that night at their house because she
and Mr. Simpson were going out on this date, and intended to leave
them there overnight.  But then you'll hear that Nicole showed up
shortly after she left the children there, stressed, angry, not
talking to Mr. Simpson, to pick up the kids after an abbreviated
night.

The next day was Sunday, May 9, Mother's Day.  Mr. Simpson and Nicole
were at the Browns' then, at Laguna, also.  And you'll hear that the
tension was extraordinary between Mr. Simpson and Nicole.  It was a
very uncomfortable situation the entire day.

After May 9, Mr. Simpson starts dating Paula Barbieri again.

On May 14, you'll hear that Mr. Simpson missed his daughter Sydney's
first communion.  On May 19, it was Nicole's birthday, and you will
hear that Mr. Simpson gave her a very expensive emerald bracelet.

But then you'll hear that on May 22, things changed for good.  It was
on that date that Justin, the younger of the two children, his
Sunshine School class picnic was being held at Rockingham. After the
picnic, Nicole returns back with the children to Bundy, and Mr.
Simpson came over.

There was a heated argument between the two of them at that time once
again.  And at this time, Nicole gave back Mr. Simpson the bracelet
that he had given her three days earlier, also gave back to him a very
expensive pair of diamond earrings, her favorite earrings, and told
him it was over.  This was it.  She wanted nothing to do with him
again.  She wanted him out of her life for good.  No more games, no
more back and forth.  It was over.

Nicole is rejecting, for the second time, Mr. Simpson.

You will hear shortly after that, that Mr. Simpson called Judy Brown,
just like he had done on that prior occasion, too, right after Nicole
had left him, but it's different this time; it's a short phone call. 
He says to Judy, "She's leaving me again, Judy."

Judy indicated that she knew.

And what Mr. Simpson says to her, he says, "Judy, I know the first
time it was my fault, but this time, it's gonna hurt."

That's all he said:  "It's gonna hurt." That was the last time Mrs.
Brown heard from, saw, spoke to Mr. Simpson until after her daughter
was murdered.

The first week of June, the relationship between Nicole and Mr.
Simpson is in an extremely volatile state.

On June 8, Mr. Simpson goes to Bundy to pick up the documents.  Nicole
is there; she is right outside the on the balcony when he comes there.
 They ignore each other; they don't speak.  The tension is there.

Also, on June 6, there's mention before on what's referred to as the
IRS letter, Mr. Simpson has hand-delivered to Nicole, a letter
indicating that she may have engaged in some sort of tax improprieties
when she purchased her house on Bundy.  It was, in effect, going to
blow the whistle on her.

Nicole was panicked, frightened, and felt that she and the children
were going to end up out on the street because she was going to have
to sell the condo and move somewhere again.

You will hear others describe how she reacted to this letter.

On June 7, you're also going to hear that Nicole realized that the
keys to her condominium were missing, that Mr. Simpson had been there
the day before, and on June 7, the keys that she kept in her kitchen
to give access to the property and her home were missing; she couldn't
find them.  You'll hear that a search was conducted of the entire
house, under furniture, everywhere, and Nicole was telling everybody
of her panic because the keys to her condominium were missing.

You'll also hear how on June 7, Mr. Simpson missed Justin's graduation
from the Sunshine School, and that he called that evening. Nicole
handed the phone.  No words were spoken to him.

Once again, these people are not talking. Things are heated.  Actions
are being taken between them.  As I say, it's extraordinarily volatile
at this time; the tension is increasing.

On June 8, Mr. Simpson composed another letter to Nicole, telling her
never to utilize the services of her housekeeper to take care of the
children.

He's turning up the heat a little bit.

On June 10, you'll hear now that Paula is back in the picture, that
she's back at Los Angeles.  She comes back, Mr. Simpson picks her up
at the airport on Friday night, and she goes home with him and spends
the night at Rockingham with Mr. Simpson.

On June 11, there's a benefit for the First Lady of Israel, a formal
event that Mr. Simpson and Paula Barbieri attend together.  They argue
that night, Paula and Mr. Simpson do.  They argue about Nicole.  On
that night, Mr. Simpson goes home alone to Rockingham, and Paula
Barbieri goes her own way, back to her apartment on Wilshire.

At seven o'clock the next morning, on June 12, Paula Barbieri picks up
the phone and leaves the message for Mr. Simpson that it's over
between them, just leaves a message.  And she, in turn, takes off for
Las Vegas.

Mr. Simpson plays golf that day.  And at Riviera Country Club, after
he plays golf, he tries to get in touch with Paula Barbieri.  He can't
contact her.  She's in communicado.  She's in Las Vegas.  He didn't
even know she left town.

At five o'clock that day, there was a recital at Sydney's, the older
daughter, school, a dance recital, something she practiced for,
rehearsed for.  It was for the parents that evening, a school event. 
All the Browns were going to be attending: Nicole's parents, her
sisters, Justin.  It was a family event.  It was an annual event, too;
they had done it in the past.

They were going to be going out to dinner afterwards as a family, as
they always did, to put what differences they had in the past.  The
one thing Nicole and Mr. Simpson had been able to do was put aside
their differences when they're around for children's events, go to the
event together, going out together afterwards, and share this event as
a family.

The relationship reached such a state at this point, that Nicole did
not want Mr. Simpson around.  He was given tickets to the recital, but
the entire Brown family knew that Mr. Simpson was not invited out to
dinner with them that night; he was not a welcome person.  Nicole was
not speaking to him, wanted nothing to do with him, and she did not
want him to be part of the family anymore.

You'll hear how Mr. Simpson did appear at the recital by himself, that
Nicole did not speak to him at all, nor he her, at the recital.

You'll also hear that Mr. Simpson was in a dark, black mood that day. 
You will hear people close to him, good friends, say that she they had
never seen him that way before.

You're also going to see put into evidence snippets of his smiles,
maybe a picture of he with Sydney, or a quick flash of a video of him
with a less than moody face on him, but you will hear the testimony
that over a period of hours what Mr. Simpson's mood and mindset was.

You'll hear how after the recital, the family and everybody did, in
fact, go out to dinner together, and Mr. Simpson walked off and went
home alone to Rockingham.

At 9 o'clock that night, Mr. Simpson calls Nicole's house.  Nicole
answers, doesn't speak to him.  The situation is in the same state,
the volatile state.

Mr. Simpson's only question to Nicole is, is Sydney asleep yet. 
Sydney goes to sleep sometime after 9 o'clock.  When she awakes, her
mother is lying out front in a pool of blood, still wearing the same
black dress she had on at the recital.

They see death, and although death came quickly, it was not
instantaneous.

The evidence will demonstrate Mr. Simpson's predisposition to an
uncontrollable rage towards Nicole.  That, along with the physical and
forensic evidence presented, will make clear Mr. Simpson
responsibility for these murders.

Thank you.

MR. BAKER:  Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

JURORS:  Good morning.


(Opening statements by Mr. Baker on behalf of Defendant Orenthal
Simpson)


MR. BAKER:  As you know by now, my name is Bob Baker.  And it's my
privilege, and indeed an honor, to represent Orenthal James Simpson.

O.J. Simpson was born on January 9, 1947 in San Francisco.  He was the
third child of two boys and two girls born to his mother and father.

During his years in grammar school and junior high school, the family
moved a lot because they were transferred from one federal housing
project to the next.  And it was during that period of time that O.J.
Simpson met his life-long friend and companion, Al Cowlings.

He then, during that period of time when he was in grammar school and
junior high school, ran track and played baseball.  And they didn't
have any football teams in those schools in those days.  And when he
transferred to Galileo High School or matriculated there, he became a
great football player, even in high school.

And he continued to run track and he from Galileo High School, went to
San Francisco Junior College.

At San Francisco Junior College, O.J. Simpson smashed every junior
college record in the book known for running backs.

And he then left after two years at San Francisco Junior College and
went to USC.  That was in 1967.  And in 1967, he immediately started
as a tailback for the University of Southern California and led that
team to the national championships.

He also in that year ran the four by 100 relay, and along with his
teammate at USC, set a world record.

He continued at USC.  In 1968 -- well, let me go back just a second.

1967, first semester, he goes home to San Francisco and marries
Maguerite, his high-school sweetheart.  And there are two children
born of that union.  There's Arnelle, who was born on December 4,
1968.  That happened to be the day that O.J. Simpson was named and
received the Heisman Trophy for being the most outstanding football
player in the United States in 1968.

After he his senior year at USC, he went on to the Buffalo Bills.  He
became the first player in the National Football League history, in
the history of pro football, to run the ball for over 2,000 yards. He
was the most valuable player three times, all pro seven times, and two
years before his retirement in 1977, he was traded from the Buffalo
Bills to his home town of San Francisco 49ers.  He spent two years
with the 49ers, and he retired in 1979.  And at the time O.J. Simpson
retired from football, ladies and gentlemen, he was a sports hero. He
was a celebrity; he was a personality.  Make no mistake about it.

When O.J. retired, it was an event, because the greatest football
player ever to carry the ball was retiring before he had lost his
ability to run a football.  And O.J. Simpson went to the podium on the
day of the ceremony that he retired and he said, "Fame is a vapor,
popularity is an accident money takes wings, only one thing, only one
thing endures, and that is character."  And he walked away.

He never carried a football again.  O.J. Simpson was not an athlete
who tried to renegotiate a contract; he never spit in the face of an
umpire.  He never, ever told a fan he didn't have time for an
autograph.

O.J. Simpson was the sports hero that went on after his career as a
football player to become a spokesman for Chevrolet, a spokesman for
Hertz, do ABC Television on Monday Night Football games, NBC
commentator on pro football games, and indeed movie roles, and movies:
 Naked Gun series, Roots, and various other things.

And nobody, nobody, had a bad word about O.J. Simpson because he
treated everybody as a human being.

I want to go back for just a moment.

In 1977, he met Nicole.  After O.J. Simpson had separated from his
first wife, Maguerite, he and Nicole became an item.  They redecorated
the house that he had bought on Rockingham, 360 North Rockingham,
where he still lives to this day.

And she was there with him.  And she helped decorate it.  And they
were an amazing couple, because they had fame -- they didn't have the
constraints that most young people have, that is, money.  They had
plenty.  O.J. was making good money in those days with NBC by then,
and his representing Hertz, as well as his movie roles.

Now, they were married on February 2 of 1985.  And later in that year,
in the fall, Arnelle was born.

Now, you've heard about some incidents through Mr. Kelly, and I want
to tell you what I believe the evidence will really show about those
incidents.

Mark Fuhrman gave a report in 1989 about the 1985 incident.  He said
it was 1985.  He said O.J. Simpson was sitting on a car, and there was
a baseball bat that was leaning next to the house.  And he said that
although he had never written a report in 1985, he said it was
indelibly impressed in his mind, and he remembered it.  And he
remembered it because my client, O.J. Simpson was a celebrity.  But he
said Mr. Simpson was agitated, not out of control.  There were no
bruises; there was nothing that would indicate that there was any
altercation with Nicole.

And he never mentions the fact in his 1989 report, going back to 1985,
that if the incident had occurred in 1989, Nicole was about eight
months pregnant.

In any event, ladies and gentlemen, that report -- and you'll hear the
evidence -- by Mark Fuhrman was written in 1989, so that they could
charge my client, O.J. Simpson, with misdemeanor spousal abuse in
1989.  They needed a second incident to do it.  So Mark Fuhrman
volunteered, and he wrote that report about something he says occurred
in 1985.

They had a life.  And you will hear the bad; you'll hear the ugly; and
you'll hear it from litigants and you'll hear from Mr. Simpson.  And
he'll take the witness stand.  And he is ready, willing, and able. 
And he'll take it anytime they want.  They have the right, and they
can call him to this stand anytime they want.  And he's here.  And he
will tell you about these incidents.

And he will tell you that in January of 1989 -- now, mind you, between
'85 and '89, they have two children of this marriage.  Sydney Brooke
is born in 1985, and Justin is born in 1987.

And they live a life that was and is unique to most people.  Because
besides the estate that Mr. Simpson has on Rockingham, he, at that
time, had a condominium in New York.

What would occur is, that they would live in New York through football
season because Mr. Simpson would have to go to Miami, to New York, to
Buffalo for the Sunday football games.  So they lived in New York in
the fall of the year and usually past Christmastime, and then move
back and lived in Rockingham until the next fall.  And their life was
a terrific one.  They loved each other; they traveled immensely
together.  They were together and had a love that few people have
known.

They both had very strong personalities.

And Nicole, you will hear, was one who liked to get her way.  And she
was a very strong personality in the relationship.  And I'm going get
into that more in a moment about who was pursuing whom.

But let me suggest to you that on January 1, 1989, the second incident
that Mr. Kelly was talking about, and so dramatically more trying to
-- you let me tell you what the evidence will really show relative to
that incident.

That incident occurred, ladies and gentlemen, at about 3 o'clock in
the morning, when both Mr. Simpson and Nicole Brown Simpson had had
far too much to drink at a New Year's Eve party that they both
attended and had a great time at.

They got in a dispute and OJ wanted Nicole out of his room.  He didn't
want her in there; she wanted to be in there.  He pushed her out the
door; he locked the door.  She got the key, opened the door, came back
in the door.

A wrestling ensued.  He got her out the door.  The door is locked
again.  And she falls.  And you'll hear from the maid that she falls.

Now, I'm not here to suggest to you that Mr. Simpson never touched her
that night.  I'm not here to suggest to you that she didn't touch Mr.
Simpson that night.

That was a physical encounter that O.J. Simpson was appalled about. 
It should have never happened.  He will admit that to you from this
witness stand.  He takes full responsibility now; he took full
responsibility then.

But I want to tell you what didn't happen.  It didn't occur that O.J.
Simpson went downstairs and was told by Officer Farrell that he was
going to be arrested.

You will hear from O.J. and the maid who was there, that Officer
Farrell, who has a very interesting past -- and we'll relate it to you
once he gets on the witness stand -- was totally abusive to O.J.
Simpson.  And Michelle, the housekeeper, suggested to O.J., who was
getting upset because Officer Farrell -- the first words out of his
mouth were, "I think you two need a divorce."  That's what he told
O.J. Simpson.  And that upset O.J. immensely. He said to him, "I
thought you were here to quiet the situation down."

And there were more words between Officer Farrell, who is mentioned in
the Christopher Commission report -- and we'll bring that up to you at
the time he sits right here.

O.J. then went back into the house.  He did not speed away from the
police officers at 30 to 35 miles an hour.  He couldn't even get out
of his driveway at 30 to 35 miles an hour.

He left to get away from the situation where he was getting upset.

And he came back that day.

And by the way, he didn't go to the Rose Bowl that day.  In fact, the
Rose Bowl wasn't even played that day.  As you know, when the Rose
Bowl falls on a Sunday -- January 1 falls on a Sunday, the Rose Bowl
is moved.  And I'm sure you'll find that the Rose Bowl was played on
January 2.  And you will also hear that it wasn't Al Cowlings who
suggested to Michelle -- pardon me, to Nicole -- that she go to the
hospital:  It was Al and O.J.

O.J. wanted -- she had a headache.  She thought it was a hangover. 
O.J. said, "You've got to go to the hospital.  You've got to be sure
to go to the hospital." And it was through O.J.'s urging, as well as
Al Cowlings'.

And obviously, after this altercation there was a distance between
Nicole and O.J.  And O.J. said, "I want Al to take you; I don't want
you to have to be concerned about anything else.  I want Al to take
you to the hospital."  And that's what happened.

Now, when O.J. and Nicole had married in 1985, O.J. was a wealthy man.
 And they had signed what is commonly referred to -- and you've heard
about them -- prenuptial agreements.  Basically, each kept their own
property.  And that prenuptial agreement would preclude, if they ever
split up, Nicole getting half of O.J.'s property, which was
significant.

He was so distraught and upset by the fact that he had gotten physical
with Nicole, he had his attorney and friend, Skip Taft, draw up a
legal document.  And that legal document said -- and was signed and
given to Nicole; she didn't ask for it -- it said, if O.J. Simpson
ever touches you again in anger, strikes you, does anything of the
sort, the prenuptial agreement is null and void.

He was worth about $10 million at the time.  That document, in and of
itself, was worth $5 million.

And he gave that to Nicole, not only to say he was sorry, but to say
he was responsible.

And, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr. Kelly suggested to you, from that
day forward, O.J. Simpson never ever touched Nicole in anger again,
ever.

And I want to go on a little bit relative to the relationship and what
happened.

In 1991, as I suggested, O.J. would go back to the east coast and he
would do his thing for NBC and the football.

And in 1991, he went back, and Nicole didn't want to go with him and
didn't go with him. She had Sydney in school and she didn't want to go
back, so she didn't.  When O.J. came back from New York, she said she
wanted a divorce.

Pardon me.  I take that back.  She said she wanted to separate.

O.J. didn't want to separate.  He was in love with her, make no
mistake about it.  He didn't want to split up his family, but she
insisted.  And he said basically, if we are going to separate, we
ought to get a divorce and get on with our lives.  If we go back
together, we can stop the divorce proceedings, whatever.

And so divorce papers were filed, I believe, in February of 1992.

Now, these two adults did not have an acrimonious relationship.  You
will hear testimony that O.J. Simpson did not stalk, did not run after
Nicole, but went on with his life.  You will hear testimony, ladies
and gentlemen, that O.J. Simpson became, and was Nicole's confidant.

Nicole had been with O.J. since she was 18; and she was, at this point
in 1992, kind of exercising her wings.  And she had many boyfriends
and men loved her.  She was gorgeous, and they loved to be with her. 
And she was with a lot of them.  And she had boyfriend problems.  And
when she had boyfriend problems, she went to O.J. Simpson.  When she
had -- well, let me tell you how much of a confidant O.J. Simpson was
to Nicole.

In the summer of 1992, she became pregnant by one of her boyfriends. 
And she turned to O.J. Simpson for moral support.  She told two people
in the world; she did not tell her mother; she did not tell her
sisters.  She told her best friend Cora Fischman, and she told O.J.
Simpson.  And then she decided to terminate what was apparently an
unwanted pregnancy.  That was how deep the relationship was in terms
of being a confidant.

She would call O.J. Simpson wherever he was, in town, out of town,
when she had a problem. When she had an accident in her Ferrari under
rather dubious circumstances.  The first person she called and found
on the east coast was O.J. Simpson.

Now, O.J. had gone on with his life, ladies and gentlemen.  And in May
of 1992, he started dating Paula Barbieri.  The divorce was final, I
believe, in October of 1992.

Now, to try to keep this in some sort of chronological sequence, it
was December of '92 that Nicole is in Aspen with her then boyfriend,
and meets Kato Kaelin.  She invites Kato Kaelin and others to a party
that she has at her house on Gretna Green in January of 1993.

In January of 1993, Kato Kaelin comes to the party, and he asked to
move into the back house that exists at Gretna Green, and Nicole
allows him to do that.  And he moves in there and pays four, five
hundred dollars rent --  he doesn't really recall how much -- and he
becomes a confidant, more of a friend, I guess.  He babysits the kids;
he talks to Nicole. He talks to her friend, Cora Fischman.  He has
coffee with them.  And he becomes a friend with O.J. because O.J. is
over there frequently, visiting his children. And he is in the Gretna
Green house for the year of 1993 to 1994.

Now, in 1994, Nicole moves from the Gretna Green house to a condo that
she owned at 875 South Bundy, where the murders took place.

Now, I want to go back just a little bit and bring you up to speed on
how she acquired that condominium.

O.J. Simpson, after they were married wanted Nicole to have a source
of income so that she could have her own money and she wouldn't have
to worry about being financially dependent on him.  He wanted her to
have that level of independence.

When he was playing football in San Francisco, he had purchased a
condominium that he owned free and clear.  He gave her that
condominium. It was worth $500,000, and he gave it to her.  It was
rented out, and she received the rental income.

She subsequently sold the condominium in San Francisco and purchased
the condo at 875 South Bundy, which she also rented out and got the
income from that.

And what happened is -- and you'll hear from people who know this far,
far better than I -- what happened is that she used a section of the
Internal Revenue Service to transfer the property from San Francisco
to the Bundy property, so she didn't have to pay taxes on the
appreciation.

And to continue to not pay taxes on that differential between the
value of the condominium in San Francisco and the value of the
condominium in San Francisco (sic), under the Internal Revenue law, it
had to continue to be rental property.  Well, in any event -- and I'll
come back to that.  In any event, 1993, 1994, Kato lives at Gretna
Green and the relationship between O.J. and Nicole can best be
described in a letter that Nicole wrote to O.J. and had hand-delivered
to him in March of 1993.

Now, you've heard all about O.J. pursuing Nicole Brown Simpson.

In fact, the exact opposite is true. Nicole wrote a letter in March of
1993, and she said to O.J., "I wasn't sure why it was about me . . ."
talking about their relationship, "so I just blamed you.  I was the
one who was controlling."  She wrote, "I never stopped loving you.  I
stopped liking myself and lost total confidence in my relationship
with you."  She said, "I want to put our family back together."  She
said, "I want to be with you.  I love you I cherish you, and I want to
make you smile. O.J., I want to come home again.  I want all of us to
be together again.  We can move wherever you want.  We can stay here. 
I just never want to leave your side again."

She signed the letter, ladies and gentlemen, "I love you forever and
always."

She was pursuing O.J. Simpson with that letter.  She sent tapes of
family movies.  She would come over to his house day and night.  She
sent cookies to his house.  She would show up at Riveria Country Club,
where O.J. Simpson would go to play golf.

In fact, ladies and gentlemen, she followed him all the way down to
the tip of Baja, Mexico, Cabo San Lucas, where he loved to go play
golf.  And she pursued him -- and she pursued him and in May of 1993. 
O.J. agreed to try to reconcile, but he put some conditions on the
reconciliation:  That they try it for a year, and have a -- after a
year, they would see if it, in fact, would work.  If it did, Nicole
and the kids would move back to Rockingham, because O.J. did not want
the kids uprooted if it didn't work out.

And so in May of 1993, they commenced a reconciliation.

Is this a good place, Your Honor?

THE COURT:  Okay.  Ladies and gentlemen, ten-minute recess.  Don't
talk about the case.  Don't form any opinions.

(Recess.)


(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, may I approach for a second?

THE COURT:  Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI:  I don't want to interrupt Mr. Baker during his
opening.  In regard to the use of the exhibits during opening, I told
Mr. Baker I didn't have any problem with him using the two boards that
I referred to yesterday in opening.  But he would like to use at least
one, and perhaps other plaintiff exhibits, that we have not yet
referred to and not yet used and I don't believe that that's
appropriate.  I think we should be the first ones to introduce those
exhibits and use them.

THE COURT:  What is it?

MR. BAKER:  It is just a diagram of Bundy. That's all it is.

MR. PETROCELLI:  I would like to see it.

THE COURT:  If it's just a diagram.

MR. PETROCELLI:  It's more than a diagram.

MR. BAKER:  I'm covering all that up.

MR. PETROCELLI:  It has all the locations of footprints  and evidence
and it's a chart that we would like to explain for the first time when
we introduce it.  It's not just a mere diagram like these maps.  I'm
happy to show it to Your Honor if you would like to see it.

THE COURT:  Are you going to use it in the opening in all that stuff?

MR. BAKER:  No.

THE COURT:  What portion are you going to use?

MR. BAKER:  I'm going to use the portions that shows where the bodies
are.  I'm going to show the portion that shows where the gate is.  I'm
going to use to diagrammatically indicate the kind of struggle went
on, how long it went on in this closed in area. They put it at a
minute.  Our people put it at 10, 15 minutes, that's what it's for.

MR. PETROCELLI:  That's the point, I think they should use their own
exhibits.  This one's specially made for one of our witnesses who will
explain what it means.  I don't think they have a right to use our
exhibits for his opening statements.

MR. BAKER:  This was made and introduced in the criminal trial.  This
is the taxpayer's exhibits.

THE COURT:  It's in existence?

MR. BAKER:  Sure, it was in existence.

MR. PETROCELLI:  What's your question?

THE COURT:  It's not an exhibit created by you.

MR. PETROCELLI:  It's an exhibit created by request for the
prosecution team.

THE COURT:  Have they added something to that exhibit?

MR. PETROCELLI:  No.

THE COURT:  Okay.  You can use it.

MR. BAKER:  Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Can it at least be limited? He can't talk about the
footprint.  It's a real footprint picture.

MR. BAKER:  I'm not going to talk about the prints, not as it relates
to the diagram because when they say the drops are to the left, I'm
not going to be precluded from that.  I don't care if the things are
this or not on the diagram.

MR. PETROCELLI:  There must be a lot of defense exhibits that you can
use other than that one.

THE COURT:  If this is an exhibit used in a criminal trial, I don't
see why I should preclude him from using it.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Well, Your Honor, I think it's appropriate that we
have our witness explain what it means before it's used, in effect,
against us.  That's my objection.  I think that's lots and lots of
exhibits that the defense has that were used in the criminal trial. 
Why do they have to use this one, that's all I'm saying.  We ought to
have the right to put on with our witness.

THE COURT:  It's a better exhibit.


(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury:)


MR. BAKER:  May I continue, Your Honor?

THE COURT:  Yes.

MR. BAKER:  Let me correct one thing that I said.

MR. PETROCELLI:  It's a new exhibit, I was mistaken.

THE COURT:  Mr. Baker, could I just interject for the jury and for Mr.
Petrocelli's piece of mind?

Mr. Baker is going to use an exhibit that is the plaintiff's exhibit. 
Plaintiff's concerned that Mr. Baker may be taking away plaintiff
thunder. I've indicated that this is apparently a photograph of a
scene.  I don't think whoever produced it makes any difference insofar
as the photograph itself is concerned.

So just bear in mind that it is plaintiff's exhibit and Mr. Baker is
going to use it in his opening statement.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you, Your Honor.

MR. BAKER:  I'll identify it when we get there.

I mentioned earlier about the January 1, 1989 incident and I mentioned
Officer Farrell's name and the real name is Officer Edwards.

In fact, Officer Farrell subsequently testified that O.J. always
accepted responsibility for that incident.  So I want to make that
clear because we have a lot of people who may report that and I
certainly want to make it clear that it was Officer Edward who was
giving Orenthal James Simpson the hard time on the morning of January
1, 1989.  That will be testified to as I suggested.

Now, before the break, we were going through the chronology of the
events of Nicole and O.J.'s life and we were approximately in May of
1993 after Nicole had said in the letter basically what her state of
mind was.  That she was not, she was the pursuer.  She was not being
pursued at all by O.J. Simpson at the time.

And O.J. agreed, as I suggested just before the break to a trial, at
reconciliation and that trial had limitations on it.  It had
conditions on it.  The conditions would last one year.  And after one
year, if it worked out, she could move back into the house and they
would be remarried.  But as I suggested he did not want his children
uprooted, moved into the house and then possibly moved out of the
house.

And so that trial reconciliation went forward and there were some
rocky moments because of the strong person of both of these
individuals.

And I want to revisit this third, what they call, incident of October
25, 1993.  And I want to chat with you about that for a few moments
and tell what you the evidence will really show relative to that
incident.

On that evening, O.J. Simpson had gone to Nicole's house and had
dinner.  He was making a movie at the time, one of the Naked Gun
series and he was on a set here in southern California.

And a young lady who was also there, engaged O.J. in conversation and
she said to O.J. that when her boyfriend, a fellow named Keith had
been seeing Nicole, he was heavily into drugs and Nicole was hanging
around with him.  And this rang a very definite bell with O.J.
Simpson.  And the reason it rang a bell with O.J. Simpson is O.J. had
gone to Nicole's house one evening and had walked up -- This was in
1992 -- and had walked up the front walkway and looked into the
bedroom.  And he saw Nicole performing oral sex on this Keith.  Lights
on, draperies open, kids in the house.

Now this man, who is supposedly a raging violent human being, didn't
do anything.  Didn't go into the house, didn't make a scene, didn't do
anything.  He rang the door bell to let them know that the world could
visualize what they were doing in there and he went back to his house.

He was upset.  I think any human being would be upset.

And so when this incident occurred in October of 1993, he was having
this discussion with Nicole and it was getting nowhere, because he
didn't like the fact that Nicole was having parties, visiting people
where -- who were prostitutes, inviting drug users into his house with
his -- Into her house with his children there.  And when you hear the
tapes, you'll hear the name Heidi Fleiss, you'll hear prostitute,
you'll hear drugs.  It's all in there.

He was very upset about it.  But I'm getting ahead of myself and I
apologize.

What happened was thier conversation over this was going nowhere. 
O.J. gets in his car and he drives home.  When he gets home, he didn't
call Nicole.  Nicole called him.  And said when we decided that we
were going to reconcile, we said that we would talk these things out. 
And so he got in his car.  He went back and he was hot.  There is no
question about it.  He did not want prostitutes and drug users in his
house and he didn't want Nicole using drugs either.

And so it was a heated conversation and he was upstairs, Nicole was
upstairs when she called 911.  And she called 911 and she had the door
locked and O.J. thought she was talking to her mother.  And he knocked
on the door, maybe he beat on the door, and he went downstairs.  Now
Nicole was so frightened of O.J. being so violent and in such a rage
and so afraid of him that she left the lock upstairs and went
downstairs to continue the argument.

Now, the police came, Sergeant Lally -- Sergeant Lally surreptitiously
recorded the argument downstairs, and you will hear on that
surreptitious recording, the reason I say it was surreptitious because
he was to book any recording into evidence immediately after taking
it.  He did not, but in any event, it was found.  You'll hear it.

And you'll hear O.J. Simpson.  You will hear Nicole Simpson saying no,
he didn't hit me.  He hasn't touched me since 1989 because he hadn't. 
There was no violence in that.  And if this was such a raging volatile
relationship, why would she have come downstairs.

And so ladies and gentlemen, the relationship and the trial period
continued.  It continued into March of 1994.  And again, it was --
they had good times.  They had bad times but O.J. in March thought
they were going to make it.

And he called Judy Brown and he says I think we're going to make it. 
I think I was wrong that this wasn't going to work.  I think we're
going to make it.

And then he went to Puerto Rico to shoot this movie Frogmen and he
called her all the time.  That is he called Nicole and her mood swings
were enormous.  Incredible.  One day she was loving and warm to him,
the next she was out of control.  But he couldn't understand it and he
called Judy and told her about that.  He said, I've got to watch
what's going on here.

She was drinking excessively when O.J. wasn't around.  And in fact,
the evidence will show when, well, wait 'till I get there.

She was in friendships with people with severe problems.  She was
partying with people she didn't know anything about.  She didn't know
who they were basically.  It was an amazing period.  And you'll hear
that from her best friend.

O.J. comes back from Puerto Rico at the end of April, 1994.  He sees
her.  They have this date.  They go down in Laguna, and she's a rattle
again.

And it's basically one year to the day since she started this
reconciliation period and it wasn't she who broke it off.  It was O.J.
 Said unless you get counseling, I can't go on with this.  I can't do
it.  I can't be a part of all of the problems.

Her best friend had severe, severe marital difficulty.  She would tell
her husband she was with Nicole and she wouldn't get home until 4:00
or 5:00 in the morning and she wasn't with Nicole.

Her other friend, who wasn't her best friend, Faye Resnick, was
heavily into drugs.  And the problems and who do they go to with their
problems? O.J. Simpson.  O.J. Simpson is the one they go to.

So what happens is the weekend of 7 and 8 of May, they decide it's
over.  We'll go on with our life.  O.J. was not a raging, violent,
smoldering human being the month of May or the month of June.

And the evidence will be that O.J. Simpson gave her a bracelet, gave
her some earrings and I want to tell you why the earrings came back.
Nicole had had these earrings that were diamond earrings, stolen. 
O.J. paid to replace them, cost about $10,000.

When the insurance check came into O.J.'s office, it was sent to
Nicole who just took the cash instead of giving it to O.J. so she gave
him the earrings back.

And the bracelet, you will hear an expensive -- maybe a relative term
to some of us, expensive is expensive.  But you will hear that the
bracelets that he gave her may have been purchased for somebody else. 
But in any event, it was the least expensive birthday gift he ever
gave her in the 17 years that they were together.

Now, I want to revisit one thing.  In that month of May, you've heard
from Mr. Kelly, with an accusation that O.J. Simpson missed his
daughter's first communion.  I want to tell you the facts relating to
that incident.

O.J. Simpson was a spokesman for Hertz and he had certain commitments
with his contract with Hertz.  And he had to be at a conference where
they kind of showcase O.J. and he meets people and he mingles with
them.

O.J. went so far to call the chairman of the board of Hertz to try to
get out of that to be at his daughter's first communion.  He couldn't
and so he wasn't there.  He -- so he wasn't there.  He was earning a
living.

I want to tell you about something else that occurred to this man who
is supposedly in a rage.

Every year they had an event for the preschool that O.J. had started
at his house.  It was a fund raiser, 3, 400 people came.  It was May
22, the day that Mr. Kelly just told you they broke up in this
smoldering rage.

Well, you will hear witnesses talk about the fact that Nicole came
over to his house, O.J.'s.  There were people wandering in and out of
his den which has some television sets in it, or family room, and
wandering back out these doors to go back out to the swimming pool and
back towards the tennis court.

And O.J. was with some other gentleman in this den watching the NBA
Playoffs.  Nicole came in sat down, put her head on O.J.'s lap and
laid there with other people around, hardly afraid of O.J. Simpson. 
Hardly a relationship that has gone sour.

If fact, she got up, went up and climbed into O.J.'s bed.  And the
reason she had done that, ladies and gentlemen, is she had had
pneumonia in the month, later in the month of May.

And O.J. Simpson had gone over there and taken care of her.  And O.J.
had brought her soup, taken care of the kids, bought her flowers.  Not
her mother, not her sisters, O.J.  So then an event occurred.  O.J.
was certainly aware of the problems, these serious problems with the
drug use of Faye Resnick and the severe marital problems of Cora
Fischman.

Then in late May he gets a phone call from Faye Resnick and Faye
Resnick says to him, she and her then fiance, Christian Reichardt,
want to go to a fund raiser charity event that O.J. sponsors at
Cedars-Sinai hospital for children with birth defects. And O.J. had
done it four years and raised 7, 8, 9 million dollars to advance
research in birth defects.

And O.J. said, sure, you can come.  And the next thing he did was
receive a call from Nicole, how upset she was that O.J. was tying to
steal her friend.  O.J. said I'm not trying to steal your friends. 
She asked if she could come, she can come.

And then O.J. decided, look, I've got to distance myself from these
people.  I've got to put a little distance because they have these
severe problems, and he attempted to do that.  And he attempted to do
that.

And you will hear, ladies and gentlemen, that virtually, virtually the
day after the agreement by Nicole and O.J. to end this one year
reconciliation period, he started to rekindle his relationship that he
terminated with Paula Barbieri when she tried to reconcile for the
year and Paula Barbieri and O.J. were publicly boyfriend and
girlfriend; the kids, the scene, Paula.

Certainly Nicole had seen O.J. with Paula.  He wasn't a jealous
stalking man at all.  The week before June 12, 1994, he'd been down
with Paula down in the desert.  He played golf, gotten up early in the
morning, as is his custom, and he played golf. And he went ahead,
played golf.

When he got back, Paula was gone -- She does not like him spending all
his time on the golf course -- with a note that she's broken up.

Well, she hadn't broken up with him and the next week, they were back
together and he was out of town virtually the week before June 10,
which is a Friday, on business on the East Coast.  He had to attend a
board of directors meeting back there.  He had some other business
back there.  And when he flew back, well, let me wait a minute before
he flies back.

He was invited by a pal of his in New York that's he known for a long
time to stay in New York.  He was back in Connecticut, New Jersey to
stay in New York play golf all weekend.  And O.J. says no, I'm flying
home.  I missed the first communion.  I'm going to be at Sydney's
recital, flies to New York from LA, knowing he has to be back in
Chicago Monday morning because he has to be at a celebrity golf
tournament put on by Hertz.

So he flies from New York to Chicago. He's picked up by Paula Barbieri
and goes home and Saturday gets up early in the morning as is his
custom, goes to Riviera country club, plays golf, plays some cards,
goes back home, watches a little television and then goes to this
charity event on -- on organize the First Lady of Israel.

And Paula and O.J. had had a good time but O.J. wanted to go home
because he was going to head up early and go play golf.  And in fact,
that's exactly what he did.

And again, Paula was not too excited about the time that O.J. spent on
the golf course.

So O.J., on June 12, 1994, rises in the morning, gets up and goes to
Riviera country club in Pacific Palasades plays golf, plays some
cards, he's in his Bronco and then he comes back and calls Paula. And
she doesn't answer.  Now, I want to explain a little bit about O.J.'s
communication system if you will.

He like all of husband has a phone system but in his house the phone
system has many lines, kind of like a small business phone system but
it does not have a cordless phone and O.J. uses his portable cell
phone kind of like a cordless phone.

In any event, he's coming back and he calls Paula.  Now, he doesn't
know that Paula had called his cell phone answering service and he
never picked it up, when she says that she was breaking up with him
again which she did not do.  She was right back with O.J. the next
week after she came, heard about the accusations that were being made
against him.

But in any event O.J. never heard about that, never picked up and the
phone records will indicate to you, never picked up this call that
they say starts him smoldering because now he may be coming alone.

He then, after he calls Paula's house in his car, he then calls
Nicole's 'cause he thought he'd go over and pick up Justin because he
knows that they're getting ready for the recital that evening. Than,
maybe he can take Justin off his hands and off Nicole's hands.  And he
adores his son and they have a good time over at his house.  Nicole
says she doesn't want him to do that.  And so he simply goes home.

He goes home and he is in his house and watches some television in the
afternoon and reads a book and kind of lies around.  Kato comes in,
they have some conversations, makes a couple telephone calls.  And
then you'll find that O.J. is a telephoner he's on the phone a lot. 
You'll know that very much before the end of this case.

In any event, 5 O'clock comes, and he is dressed and he goes to the
recital at Paul Revere Junior high school which is five minutes from
his house.

He gets there, contrary to what my worthy adversaries have told you,
he has a seat two seats from Nicole.  And the two seats that are
between them are for Sydney and Justin because when the kids are
dancing, they're kind of running around and the auditorium is in fact
full.  And the people, the young students would dance and then the
parents after their kids would dance, would kind of leave.  So as the
program got on in time, there was less people in the auditorium.

But O.J. was closer to Nicole than was her parents for example.

In any event, there was no smoldering rage with O.J. whatsoever.

He then sees that he's made a mistake. Other  father's have brought
flowers for their daughters, so O.J., in the middle of the
performance, gets up, walks out, gets in his car and drives and gets
to a florist and gets some flowers and gets back before Sydney has
danced.

And because when he comes in, he sees Nicole kind of bending over
talking to his mother. Rather than disturb her and go through the row,
he just stands to the side because his daughter's coming up in the
next dance.

And he waits, his daughter dances. Both he and Nicole were standing
during that dance as I recall and then they go outside after the
program and you'll see a picture.  I'll put it up for you of O.J. and
Sydney.

MR. P. BAKER:  Mr. Baker, you got to hit the monitor.  I think you hit
it with her elbow.

MR. BAKER:  I did.  You may not see a picture of O.J. and Sydney.

MR. P. BAKER:  Did the red light go to green.

MR. BAKER:  The red light.  No, the red light is a red light.  The
modern age.

MR. P. BAKER:  Take the tape out real quick and then we're going to --

MR. BAKER:  Now it's gone to green.  Thank you.

(Referring to monitor.)

And O.J. was not in a foul mood.  And you will see, in addition to
this photograph, you will see a video tape that was taken at that
recital.  At the conclusion of it, you'll see O.J. laughing with Lee
Brown.  You'll see Denise Brown hugging him.  This is not the family
that was described by Mr. Kelly. This is a family that loves O.J.
Simpson.

The event is then over and it is approximately, I think it's right
around 7 O'clock. And O.J. returns to his house.  Now, you've heard
accusations that O.J. can't account for his time and we're going to
get into that.

But after O.J. returns about 7:00, Sometime between 7:30 I think and
9:00.  He takes his Bronco who he had parked on Ashford.  Should we
put up the -- oh, let me put it up.  (Indicating to large diagram of
Rockingham avenue.)

MR. BAKER:  His Bronco is parked over here on Ashford.  And O.J. knows
that he's going to be, he's got an 11:45 American airlines flight to
Chicago and he knows that he's going to be picked up later that
evening by a limo and taken to the airport.  And so he pulls his
Bronco into the area via, his entrance to his house and he offloads
his golf clubs and sets them down here in the walkway.  And there's a
couple of benches that face each other here and you'll see pictures of
those.

But he puts his golf clubs down there I think on the bench over on the
south side and goes, puts the car back.  He then, after he's puts in
the car, he puts the car out because his driveway is basically one
way.  You can get a couple cars in here and he has a little cut out in
here and that's where his Bentley usually is.

And his garage at the time had another vehicle in it and had a lot of
golf clubs in it and had some exercise machines in it.  And so he
pulls the Bronco out the driveway and turns and parks it on
Rockingham.

And the Bronco is, contrary to some evidence you may have heard, not
askew, at least over four, five inches.  Can you put on that photo of
the Bronco parked on Rockingham.  Okay.  Now, can you move it up so
that we can see how far this tire is to just look at the curb area.

Now, you can see that that tire's a little bit  over the concrete curb
on the macadam there and this is not over it, I don't know, five
inches.  It isn't askew.

He then, sometime around -- you can turn it off.  Thanks.

Sometime around 9 O'clock, I think its 9:03, he calls Sydney, tells
her congratulations, you did a great job.  And then it's about this
time, about 9:00, 9:10 that O.J. had noticed that Kato had left the
jacuzzi on.

He's upstairs and the back of his -- why don't you put that on? 
(Referring to monitor) From the back of his bedroom upstairs, you can
look right down on the pool and you can see the pool, the jacuzzi
adjacent to it.  I have a kind of diagram here and he looks down and
he sees that the jacuzzi is on. O.J.'s bedroom is here, jacuzzi is
here.

So O.J. looks down.  He says that he walks down to Kato's room.  Now,
O.J. 's main house is this area where my hand is.

And then there is this area where this was, where Kato's room was and
Arnelle used this room. There's a wing that goes back beyond to the --
to the east of the house that has two bedrooms and a couple of baths
and there's a little office in it as well.

It adjoins the house and you can get into the these adjoining rooms
from the house.  But when Kato is living there, and you can block it
off right here so that the guests can't get into your house and have
access into the main house.

And so after, and Kato by now was residing at O.J.'s.  And you'll
recall, ladies and gentlemen, that Kato had moved in in January of
1993 with Nicole in the back house that she had at Gretna Green after
he kind of asked if he could move in there in January of 1993.  Well,
he remained there until Nicole left, left take Gretna Green house at
the end of the year of '93.

And then, he had asked Nicole if he could live with her on Bundy and
Nicole and O.J. had a conversation about that and O.J. didn't think
that was a good idea.

He's a young man with his wife who's unmarried and his kids there and
he said, I don't think that's a good idea.

So he says to Kato, look, you can have a room back in that back wing
because nobody's living in there and its just unused.  And Kato
immediately snapped that up and abandoned Nicole.  And the reason that
I say abandoned is because you'll hear from Kato that he, Nicole,
didn't want him to move in there at all.

And Nicole, at that time, was sure that she was going to move back in.
 This was that reconciliation period and she did not want Kato there.

So what happens is the minute Kato finds out that O.J. Simpson isn't
going to charge him rent, he drops Nicole like yesterday's newspaper. 
And he and Nicole are never friends again.  Nicole tells him, don't
move in there.  Don't stay there.  And in fact, when Nicole would come
over in the spring of 1994 to take the kids swimming, she'd call up
and have the housekeeper make Kato leave the property before she'd
come over.

But in any event, Kato was there certainly on June 12, 1994.

And O.J. goes down, as I suggested, and tells him, look, you have got
to be a little careful with the jacuzzi and turn it off because the
thing keeps bubbling and the heater and all of that.  So he then goes
back up to his room to get some money because he's going to go get a
hamburger and he's going and he's hungry.

So he after he had left the recital, and turned down an invitation by
Judy Brown to go to the Mezzaluna -- To go to dinner, he didn't know
where they were going cause Judy Brown invited him to go to dinner. 
He didn't want to go.  He did not want to rekindle there any of the
problems that he and Nicole had.

At any event, he hasn't had any dinner. It's    9 O'clock in the
evening.  It's 9 O'clock in the evening on June 12, 1994.  He had gone
back down after he originally saw Kato, he -- when he got back
upstairs, he saw that all he had was 100 dollar bills.

Now you're going to here that hear O.J. Simpson, unlike you and I,
carried around a lot of cash.  In fact, when the police asked Lee
Brown if he carried around a lot of cash Lee Brown says he always has
an enormous amount of cash, 5 to 12,000 dollars at all times.

So O.J. just had hundred dollar bills. So he goes down to Kato's room,
back down and says to Kato, can you break 100 dollars.  Kato did not
have change for 100 and gave O.J. 20.

In that conversation when he asked him about -- when he asked him
about changing the 100 dollars, O.J. said, I need it because I've got
--I want to go get a burger and I need a couple of bucks for the sky
cap.

Long and short of the story is that O.J. is walking back into the
house and Kato says, can I go with you to get a burger.  O.J. said
sure.  They get in O.J.'s car about 9:10 on the evening of the 12th
and they drive to 26 and Santa Monica where there's a McDonald's, go
through the drive through O.J. gets his burger.  Kato gets whatever
he's going to eat and they come back.

They get out of the car and O.J. had eaten his burger.  On the way
back and he's kind of not -- he went in the Bentley, the black Bentley
because by now, the Bronco is out around the corner outside on
Rockingham.  So he eats the burger on the way back.  He's cleaning out
the lettuce.  Kato's says, basically, he said have a good trip.  Kato
starts on the back side going back to his house which is around -- not
his house, his room, I apologize. But the Bentley is here.  It's here
in this little cut out in the driveway.  And O.J.'s sitting here,
knocking the lettuce out of it and Kato walks around this way and he's
got to go in this path around here and then there's the pool area and
his place is back over here.

So O.J. then goes back in and enters, this is the kitchen entrance and
enters his house through the kitchen.

Now, we know that it is approximately 9:35 and we know that because of
the call that Kato makes, the minutes he gets back at 9:37.  O.J.
fusses around in the kitchen for awhile, picks up his cell phone and
walks through this door and there's a button right there into the
garage.

And he wants to try to find if he can get a sand wedge because he's
just been given a new set of golf clubs, and O.J. has an immense
amount of golf clubs.  He's just given new sets of golf clubs. He
wanted a particular sand wedge.

As you golfers know, the sand wedges don't come in a set.  And not
only that, if you have a particular one that works, mine never does,
but if you have one that works, you kind of want to keep it.

In any event, he goes out into the garage and the golf clubs are on
this side of garage the north side of the garage, looks for a sand
wedge and can't find it.

So he picks up a three wood and thinks he may take that to Chicago
with his cell phone, walks out and opens the trunk of his Bentley. 
O.J. has golf clubs in the Bronco.  He has golf clubs in the Bentley. 
He has golf balls in the Bentley.  He has golf balls in the Bronco. 
He's an avid golfer.  And he finds a pitching wedge which you golfers
know is not quite as angled as a sand wedge, and takes it out. There's
some golf balls in the back of his car, puts them down right here on
the lawn and chips a few out towards Rockingham.

Now, it's dark.  There's no question about it.    O.J. inveterately
chips golf clubs and has a golf club in his house.  He chips out
toward Rockingham a couple of shots just half shots.  Then he chips a
couple full hits over the tee here onto the lawn, perhaps back here.

He then skulls one.  And what that means is that if you take a golf
ball, your supposed to hit the club underneath it.  If you hit it
halfway up, that's a skull and the ball goes pretty rapidly. And he
heard it hit some play equipment and decided that he better quit.

So he takes the pitching wedge that he had, puts it back into the
trunk of the car and wants to see if he's got any clubs with that sand
wedge is in the back of his one Bronco, a control box here.  He owns
the gate.  He goes out, his dog goes out with him.  The dog goes
across the street, does his business.  O.J. waits for him and now this
gate over here on the Rockingham gate is on a timer, opens and closes.

By now it's closed.  He walks around, comes back in the Ashford side
because one gate is usually off, it was then, was off of the hydraulic
controls, pushes it open and walks in, puts the three wood that's
carried around with him found in golf clubs in his Bronco that he
could use back in the garage.

Now, when he's out here, chipping golf balls and just after he takes
the pitching wedge out of his trunk of his car, he calls Paula again
on his cell phone that he picked up in the kitchen.  And he calls her.
 Nobody's home and he leaves a message on her answering machine and
it's 10:03.  It's done from right here.  (Indicating to diagram).

O.J.'s cell phone is like a lot of people have and that is there is a
device in both his Bentley and his Bronco where you put the cell phone
and you can use it for a car phone.  And when you take it out of that
device, you can use it as a portable phone.  And so he was right there
when he called Paula at 10:00, 10:30.

Now, after O.J., and I'm going into a lot of detail and I apologize
for this detail, but the reason I'm going into this detail is my
worthy advisari said Mr. Simpson has no alibi for an hour and 20
minutes and I want to tell you what he was doing. But you can listen
to what he was doing from his testimony right here.

But after he had gone back, put the three wood back and gone back in
the house, he then goes upstairs, packs a little, reads a little bit
and then looks at his watch or the clock in the room and finds that
it's 10:30 to 10:35 on the night of the 12th.

Now, O.J. was, and is a bachelor.  He lives alone.  The hazards of
being a lawyer. (Referring to diagram falling.)

MR. BAKER:  As I said O.J. was, and is a bachelor.  He wasn't married
then and lives alone.  He doesn't have somebody to vouch where he is
when he's home alone and he doesn't have anybody to vouch to him for
24 hours.  For example, he couldn't have had anybody say the night
before, the afternoon before when he was home on Saturday, the 11th,
there was nobody there.  I mean Kato was in and out but Kato was not a
close compadre of O.J. Simpson.  He doesn't have anybody that's always
there with him.

In any event, ladies and gentlemen, it's 10:30, 10:35.  He's been
reading a book, watching television and he looks and says, you know,
it's getting late.  My limo driver is going to be running a little bit
late, I guess.  But he goes to the bathroom, jumps in the shower.

While's he in the shower, he hears the phone ring a couple of times
once, twice, don't recall and doesn't get out of the shower to answer
it.

Because he knows it's the gate because it has a particular ring and he
can see through the shower door on the phone.  I believe he can see
that it's the line for the gate and his regular driver Dale St. John
let's himself in.  He's picked up O.J. for years.  He knows how to get
in the house.  O.J.'s totally unconcerned.

So after he finishes the shower, he packs a little more and concludes
that he's gotten a particular golf outfit out of his closet and can't
recall if he got his golf shoes.

So he goes downstairs and checks to ensure that the golf shoes are on
-- are in the golf bag which has a travel cover on it.  And let me
just back up, and I apologize for this, but what happened when he
brought his golf back bag in, he then put a travel cover on it.  For
you golfers, non-golfers what that is there's a canvas cover that
covers the entire bag and so you can, when they throw it in the
airplane, your bag isn't open and somebody can't take clubs or
anything out of it.  And it is very loosely fit around the golf bag so
you can put a lot of stuff in it, and O.J. did.

He had put into that golf bag, well, his golf shoes and he went
downstairs with a suit bag. Some of this luggage is kind of confusing,
but let me try too explain it to you this way.

O.J. had a followed over what has been known as Louis Vitton bag.  He
had what he calls a grip, I call a leather duffel bag.  He had a small
bag with golf balls in it.  This is ultimately and he had a suit bag. 
Now, he takes the suit bag 'cause he carries that on the plane because
he knows the next night he's got to go to a dinner and he doesn't want
to have a wrinkled suit after the celebrity golf thing that Hertz is
putting on -- on the 13th.

In any event, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to confuse you, he
goes downstairs with his suit bag unzips his travel cover on his golf
bag, sees that the shoes that he wants are in there and closes it back
up.

He then goes at this time as he is going back, he is seen by a Allan
Park.  It is 10:57 and we know that from the phone records of Allan
Park's cell phone call.

Now, he goes upstairs at that point in time, completes getting
dressed, comes back down.  His golf bag is gone.  It's in the back of
the car with his Louis Vitton bag and his grip.  He checks his grip to
see whether he's got all of the cell phone components.

And by that, he had his cell phone but his cell phone, like all the
portable cell phones, has a case and a charger and he needed the case
and the charger.  And contrary to what you heard yesterday, he then
wants and does go out to the Bronco over on Rockingham and gets the
case and the charger for his phone comes back by the Bentley, picks up
a wind breaker, a little bag full of golf balls and was over to the
limousine.

When he's walking back to the limousine, he hears the driver and
Kato's talking about noises.  These thumps you will -- that you've
heard so much about and O.J. doesn't know what they're talking about. 
He heard it when he came down, but he didn't pay much attention to it.

So now Kato seems to be somewhat agitated about these thumps and he
got a little pen flashlight and O.J. says, to the driver, "do you have
a flashlight light?"  He said no.  So O.J. says, "well, let's go into
the house and get a flash light."

So they go into the house to get a flashlight.  O.J. takes a drink of
water and looks and sees that he is bleeding.  He has a small drop. 
He looked at the counter, there was some blood on the counter and he
took a napkin or paper towel, I don't know which, wiped it off and --
'cause he saw another drop of blood on his finger.

And then he sees in the kitchen that it's after 11 O'clock.  He's got
a 11:45 flight so he says to Kato, I've got to go.  I have to.  You
lock up and I will call you from the limo and tell you how to set the
alarm.  And O.J. hustles out the front door.

This is not before, ladies and gentlemen, that he had told Kato or
that they'd agreed, I think he told Kato, look, we'll get these
flashlights, you go around the south side of the house.  I'll go
around the north side of the house.

In fact that would've worked.  In other words, if they had time to do
that, O.J. was sending Kato Kaelin right where Mark Fuhrman says he
found a glove.

In any event, it didn't work.  O.J. comes out, gets in the limo and
off they go to the airport.  O.J. does exactly what he said he was
going to do.  That is, he calls Kato Kaelin from the limousine cell
phone, tells him the alarm, Kato sets the alarm.

Now, to give you the whole picture, I've got to go back and discuss
with you a little bit.

THE COURT:  I think it's time, pick a time when it's convenient for
you.

MR. BAKER:  This is the time.

THE COURT:  Okay.  Ten minutes, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)


(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. BAKER:  I apologize for the length of this, but this case is going
to go for a while, and there's a lot of evidence and a lot of facts
that I've got to tell you about.

And when we broke for the last recess, I was going to chat with you a
little bit about Allan Park.  And Allan Park is the limo driver.  And
he came down Sunset; he turned right on Rockingham.  He goes up and
hadn't really recognized the house when he drives past Rockingham, and
then turns right, onto Ashford (referring to diagram of Rockingham).

He turns right onto Ashford.  His testimony will be he turns the limo
around and parks it on the north side of the street, knows he's pretty
early.  It's 10:20, 10:22.  He gets out of the limo, smokes a
cigarette, and stays basically there until about 10:40.

He's got the vehicle in the area on Ashford.  He drives around at that
point and looks into the gate at Rockingham, and sees that it's
possibly not quite as accessible, and drives back an parks the
limousine with the limousine facing down the driveway.

Now, he then -- from 10:20 to 10:40, he basically out of the
limousine.

He's then in and out of the limousine, punching the intercom, while
Mr. Simpson is in the shower and doesn't get out of the shower.

Now, Allan Park, if he's here, and O.J. drives his Bronco up here, is
going to hear it.

He doesn't hear anything.  He doesn't hear a door slam; he hears
nothing.  And the reason he doesn't hear anything is because the
Bronco is there all the time.

Now, his testimony is going to be that he doesn't recall seeing any
cars on Rockingham.  His testimony is also going to be that here in
the driveway were two vehicles, Mr. Simpson's Bentley and another car
behind it.  Arnelle's Saab wasn't there. She didn't get home until 1
o'clock that morning.  It wasn't there when he was there.

But he'll testify he recalls seeing it. And he testified that it's an
innocent mistake of recollection that it was here.  And he testifies
even though his car is parked on Rockingham at the time and he didn't
recall seeing one, one car from Sunset down to Mr. Simpson's house.

In any event, ladies and gentlemen, he does see, at 10:55, when he
gets off the phone, Kato Kaelin coming out this way.  Kato lets him
in.  He drives up, picks up -- puts the golf bag in the back of his
vehicle, and he's chatting with Kato Kaelin about the thumps that Kato
Kaelin heard.

Now, you heard read why he had from Mr. Petrocelli, why Kato Kaelin
heard those thumps at 10:50.  Kato Kaelin testified that he heard
those thumps at 10:40.  In fact, he was on the telephone to his
girlfriend, Rachel Ferrara.  She testified that he asked her at 10:40
-- he asked her at 10:40 if there's been an earthquake.  And so it was
at 10:40 that he heard the (counsel indicates banging noise) that he
testified to in the preliminary hearing -- that he testified to in the
criminal trial.

As I suggested, when O.J. has gone out to his Bronco not to get the
exact cell phone, the portable cell phone, but as I indicated to you,
the case and the charger, and comes back around, picks up the golf
bag, the little ball bag, and his -- I believe his windbreaker that he
had, that he put inside the golf bag, and goes back over to where the
limo is.

That's when O.J. again hears Kato and Allan Park, the driver, talking
about these thumps.

That's when he they go into the kitchen and that's when O.J. notices
blood on his hand, wipes it off, and thinks nothing of it; goes out,
gets back in the limo, and heads to the airport.

Now, you've heard a lot about cuts on O.J. Simpson's hand.

Well, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, along with the cuts
and the fact that this man was in some sort of rage, Allan Park didn't
think Mr. Simpson was in any sort of rage.  And we're going to come
back in a moment to the time line as to whether or not Mr. Simpson
could have murdered two people between 10:40 and 10:45 -- as Mr.
Petrocelli told you about yesterday -- 10:40 and 10:45, and be seen
back in his driveway at 10:55.  But I'm going to get back to that in a
moment.

What happens is that after he's in the limo and he goes to LAX, he is
seen by a couple of people as he gets out of the vehicle, a Michael
Gladden and a Michael Norris.  And you will hear their testimony. 
O.J. is calm, cordial, friendly.  In fact, I believe the evidence will
indicate that Michael Gladden had asked him for an autograph.  He
started to the gate and then remembered that he hadn't given Gladden
an autograph, turned around, gave him an autograph, and then went on
to the gate.

Now, those people will tell you that Mr. Simpson's demeanor was
cordial, calm, warm, nice. They will tell you he signed and the
autographs for them, ladies and gentlemen.  He had a pen in his hand;
he had no cuts, not a cut on his hand.

He gets in the airplane, and in the airplane is a fellow by the name
of Howard Bingham Now, Howard Bingham was Mohammed Ali's personal
photographer, and he'd known O.J. for years.  And Howard Bingham
approached, and he came up and talked to O.J. in first class.  And he
said -- and he'll testify he was warm, he was cordial, he was nice,
like he always is.  He did not have a cut on his hand.

Steve Valerie, sitting across the aisle in the same row as O.J.
Simpson -- by the way, he wasn't asleep; the whole first-class section
is not asleep.  He notices O.J. interacting with all the other
passengers.  And he is more inquisitive because he is looking at
O.J.'s hand for a Super Bowl ring.

Now, O.J. was inducted into the National Football League Hall of Fame,
but O.J. never played in the Super Bowl, neither for Buffalo nor for
San Francisco ever played in the Super Bowl during the time that O.J.
was a member of the team.  So he was looking at his hands.  He saw
absolutely no cuts.

Wayne Stanfield was the captain of the American Airlines flight that
night.  He heard O.J. was on the plane, so he comes back out of the
cockpit after they're airborne and talks to O.J.  Again, warm,
cordial, very nice, like he always is.  No cuts whatsoever on his
hands.

The plane touches down in Chicago.  And Jim Merrill, an employee of
Hertz, had been designated to pick up O.J. early in the morning.  This
is a red-eye -- O.J. had taken a red-eye because he wanted to be at
his daughter's recital.  He knew he had to be in Chicago for Hertz. 
That's part of what he did for a living.  So he had taken this
red-eye.

And it's 6 o'clock in the morning, basically, in Chicago.  And Jim
Merrill picks him up. O.J. is normal, cordial, was through the
airport.  He had checked his fold-over Louis Vitton bag; he checked
his golf clubs.  They waited for the clubs.  Jim Merrill says there
wasn't a cut on his hand; he was nice to everybody, warm, cordial.

Then they go to the hotel.  O.J. Simpson dropped off in the early
morning hours, as I said, goes into the lobby, signs autographs when
people see him.  The clerk at the desk sees O.J. sign autographs. He
does not have a cut on his hand.

Then, he goes upstairs to his room and goes to bed, to get a few
hours' sleep before he's got to get up and be transported back to this
golf course to play golf all day long, then attend a banquet that
evening.  That's the plan; that's what he was there for; that's what
Hertz pays him for.

He is awoken at about 8:30 Chicago time, 6:30 our time, and he's told
that his former wife is dead; she's been killed.  And he is absolutely
distraught.  The police won't tell him how; they won't tell him what
happened.  He asks about his kids. They've been taken to the police
station.  He is exceedingly upset.  He's distraught.  He doesn't know
what to do.

He calls Cathy Randa, his assistant.  He calls Leroy Taft.  Leroy Taft
is his manager, his friend, his lawyer.  And he says, I have got to
get back to LA.  I've got to bet back to LA.  And he's making calls an
he's rushing, between trying to pack his toiletries, and he's rushing
between the phone, which is by his bed, and the bathroom, and he cuts
-- Breaks a glass.  You'll see pictures of it there.  The Chicago
police went in afterwards, took pictures of it.  You'll see the bloody
towel.  And he is rushing back and forth, and he cuts his hand on the
middle finger of his left hand with the glass.

And he is frantic.  He calls Jim Merrill, the guy who picked him up
the night before.  He doesn't know if Jim Merrill lives five minutes
or 45 minutes or 55 minutes from the airport, but he does know --
because he called downstairs, contrary to what Mr. Petrocelli says --
he does know there are no cabs. He then is frantic, calls him back for
the car. You've got to get here.  I've got to get back to Los Angeles.

Within 65 minutes of being told that his wife, former wife has been
killed, the mother of his children, he's on an airplane back to Los
Angeles.  He goes down into the lobby area of the hotel, and in the
lobby area of the hotel, he asks the clerk for a band-aid because he
cut his finger.  She sees it at that time, not the night before, not a
few hours before, and he gets on the airplane.  And he sits next to a
fellow by the name of Mark Partridge.

Mark Partridge is an attorney.  O.J. -- again, he's frantic.  Again --
let me go back.  I missed something, and it's important.  I want to
tell you about it.

Jim Merrill has testified that the O.J. that called him the morning of
the 13th was a far different O.J. Simpson than he picked up a few
hours before.  He was agitated; he was totally distraught. He didn't
know what to do.  He couldn't react; he was grief-stricken.  So he
gets -- as he comes down -- and I missed this, too -- he comes down,
and another Hertz employee, by the name of Raymond Kilduff, had come
into the hotel, and he had dropped off some other people who were
going to be transported out to the golf tournament that same day.  And
O.J. asked him frantically if he could give him a ride to the airport.

And Killduff will testify that O.J. Simpson was agitated, he was
upset; he just was beside himself.  And he's the guy that took O.J. to
the airport.

And Cathy Randa, his assistant, had gotten him two flights, because
she didn't know if he could get out there quick enough.  And he had
one flight, then he had another one, I think, 40 minutes later that he
was booked on.  And I don't want to dispel the idea of the golf clubs
and his consciousness of guilt here.

What the evidence is going to show, ladies and gentlemen, the evidence
is going to show that O.J. Simpson, when he got to the hotel in the
early morning hours of the 13th, left his golf clubs in the car that
Jim Merrill had picked him up in.

When he found that he could make the early flight and get back, he
didn't wait for his golf clubs.  He didn't wait for Jim Merrill, who
was on the way with his golf clubs in the trunk.  He grabbed, as any
human being would after being told your wife -- former wife has been
murdered, the mother of your children has been murdered, took the
first available vehicle he could find to get to the airport he didn't
care about his golf clubs.

So he gets back to the airport.  As I said, he's seated just next to
Mark Partridge, an attorney.  And O.J., again, is just distraught --
and Mark Partridge has testified to this -- he is upset; he is crying.
 He is on the airplane.  He didn't know what to do.

He calls Kato a couple of times.  The air phone cuts off.  He calls
Cathy Randa.  He calls Skip. He is trying to find out what had
happened to Nicole, and he can't find out.

Now, he arrives at LAX.  He didn't check his bags coming back; he
carried -- he took his suit bag, pulled it into his fold-over bag, had
his fold-over bag and grip bag.  That's what he had coming back.

He gets out of LAX on the 13th, and now this event, the murders of
June 12, 1994, becoming big, big media business.  They are everywhere.
 But he gets out of the airport; he gets into Skip Taft's automobile. 
He's got his grip in one hand and he's got his Louis Vitton he throws
in the back seat, I believe, with Cathy Randa and Skip Taft, and he
goes directly to Rockingham.

When he gets to Rockingham, it is in the morning, right around noon, I
think, somewhere about there, our time.

The crime scene is roped off with yellow tape, like that stuff
sticking outside on the doors, or just on the side of the doors.  And
he has this black duffel bag, slant grip, as he calls it, in his hand.
 And Cathy Randa gets out of the car and takes his fold-over Louis
Vitton with him.

Well, they let O.J. and Skip Taft into the estate.  They won't let
Cathy Randa in; she's not a lawyer.  This is a crime scene.  They let
Skip in because he is O.J.'s lawyer.  She's standing from -- with this
grip.  She offers it to the police, this fold-over Louis Vitton bag. 
They wouldn't take it. She says, take it, put it in the house, or take
it. They wouldn't do it.

Simultaneously to that, Bob Kardashian had heard that O.J. was coming
back to his house.  He heard on the news this horrible event, and he
changes direction and goes to O.J.'s house.  He pulls up in his car,
and there's Cathy Randa standing outside, because when Skip, as I
recall, gets off the out of car, he locks it.  She can't even get back
in the car; she is standing there.

You'll see a tape of them hugging and her handing Bob Kardashian the
fold-over, if you will, Louis Vitton bag, and he throws it in his car.

And the police do not ask for that piece of luggage for months.  And
when they ask for it, it is immediately given to them.

And I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this is a test.  It's a
presumptive test. And what it is -- you'll hear the word Luminol
possibly throughout this case.  It will have a lot -- be repeated over
and over again to you.  But there is a chemical called Luminol.  You
can put it on something, and it's a presumptive test for blood.  In
other words, if you cut your hand and you put Luminol on it, it turns
blue; you can see it.  What it really does is, as I understand it --
I'm certainly not a chemist -- is, it recognizes, if you will,
oxidation.

So, in any event, that bag was thoroughly tested by the Los Angeles
Police Department, and you can determine if this test and others, if
an item has ever had blood on it.  Inside, outside, you can determine
that.

That Louis Vitton bag had never had blood on it at all.

They did that test to the golf bag, as well.  Never blood on it at
all.

In any event, to continue on with the chronology, O.J., the minute he
gets into his estate, is handcuffed.

And then he has walked over by the street tree and Phil Vannatter, has
the handcuffs removed. And they chat.

Now, Howard Weitzman, also a lawyer, was there.  The reason that
Howard Weitzman was there in the estate when O.J. Simpson got there is
because of Mark Partridge, the attorney I told you about that sat next
to O.J. on the flight out.

During the communications with Mark Partridge and O.J., O.J. had told
him, "The police want to talk to me."

And Partridge said, "You better have a lawyer there."

Skip Taft is a lawyer; he's a business lawyer.  He's O.J.'s manager
and a business lawyer; he's not a criminal lawyer.

Howard Weitzman was called.  Howard Weitzman was a lawyer.

So Vannatter says to O.J., "I want to take you downtown and I want to
ask you some questions."

Now, O.J. is still standing there with this grip.  O.J. says, "Fine,
we'll gone downtown now."  Here's a man that's had two hours' sleep in
the last 36 or whatever it is, 40 hours, going downtown to be
interviewed.

They are going downtown, and John Vannatter and Lange put O.J. in the
police car, and have his lawyers, Skip Taft and Howard Weitzman, drive
downtown to Parker Center in a separate car.

When they get down there, Vannatter says, "Look, I don't think you
need a lawyer.  We can do this interview without you having an
attorney present."

And O.J. doesn't have anything to hide; he agrees to that, says that's
fine.

You will hear the interview that was done on O.J. Simpson at about 2
o'clock in the afternoon of June 13, 1994.  Now, that interview is
recorded, and O.J. is tired.  You will hear him tell the police about
having the cut and the drop of blood that I told you about after he
came back from getting the case and charger to his phone from his
Bronco.

You will hear O.J. Simpson tell him about cutting his finger in
Chicago; it's in here.

You will hear O.J. Simpson say he doesn't know what's going on.  You
will hear him ask Vannatter and Lange and tell them he's been asking
for hours for you guys to tell me what's going on.  You won't do it;
you say you'll tell me in a little bit.

And they don't tell him.

They say, we've got two killings here, and O.J. doesn't know how those
killings occurred.  He says, I've got guns at my house.

Go get the guns.

Knowing those guns hadn't been fired, they said, "O.J., we've got a
problem here.  There's blood at your house.

He said, give me a blood test.  Give me a blood test.

Consciousness of guilt?  Consciousness of innocence.

Why would he let them take his blood? Why would they let him interview
him without a lawyer? Why would he let them ask him about --

MR. PETROCELLI:  Objection.  Argumentative.

THE COURT:  That's sustained.

MR. BAKER:  Consciousness of innocence.

So they finish taking his statement at about 2:30 in the afternoon of
the 13th, and then they take O.J. up on his offer to take blood, and
they go down and they have this nurse, LAPD nurse, Spano Peratis,
takes his blood in a syringe that's duly marked per CC boom, boom,
boom on the syringe.

He testifies under penalty of perjury now, at the preliminary hearing,
when this -- everybody knows this is a high-profile case of importance
that's televised.  He testifies.

"How much blood did you take, Mr. Peratis?"

"7.9 to 8.1 cc's."

There's no doubt that's what he testified to.  So let's just round it
off at eight cc's of blood.

And they release O.J. Simpson.  And O.J. Simpson goes to his office
because he can't go home; they still have it quarantined off as a
crime scene. And then he goes to his office, and he ultimately goes to
his house.

And you've heard from my worthy adversaries.  I've heard them say that
O.J. said to Kato, for example, on the night -- the evening of the
13th, you saw me go into the house, didn't you?

I'll tell you what O.J. said to Kato Kaelin.  Kato was going to be
interviewed by O.J.'s lawyers.  O.J. Simpson said to Kato Kaelin,
"Just tell the truth."  That's all he said, "tell the truth."

And then O.J. was under the cover of darkness and surreptitiously
because his house had become a zoo -- there were people everywhere;
there were cameras everywhere.  There were boom mikes; there were
people on ladders, trying to look into his home. And so they got him
out of there the next morning and they got him over to Bob
Kardashian's, where he remained to until the 17th.

And O.J., of course, went to Nicole's funeral on the 16th, I believe. 
On the 17th, he had perhaps the most outstanding criminalist in the
world at his house -- at Kardashian's house.  Pardon me.

And what O.J. had done and his lawyers had done, they said to the LAPD
and to the LA District Attorney's office, "We will give you the
services, at Mr. Simpson's expense, of the world's best detective and
the world's best forensic scientist, and let the cards fall where they
may."

That offer was refused by the LAPD and the LA District Attorney's
office.

So Henry Lee, who is possibly the best known criminalist in the world,
flew out from Connecticut.  He took a bunch of pictures of Mr.
Simpson.  He did some presumptive tests around his house relative to
blood.

Robert Heidstra was there.  They took some pictures of Mr. Simpson,
showing absolutely no bruises whatsoever.  None.  He had some cuts on
his left hand.  He had a cut where he cut himself in Chicago, and he
had additional cuts that he had incurred since he had been back.

And you will hear testimony, ladies and gentlemen, that O.J. Simpson
was just distraught.  He was under heavy medication.  He could not
believe that people -- that the media would accuse him of killing his
former wife, the mother of his children, and leaving her body at the
stairs so that his children could find them.

He couldn't believe it.  And he had a very hard time, and he was under
heavy, heavy medication.  And he wrote a note on the 15th -- and let
me read you the part that Mr. Brewer just failed to read to you.

MR. BREWER:  That's argumentative, Your Honor.

THE COURT:  Overruled.

MR. BAKER:  It should -- is it there?  Would you check it, please?

I'm sorry.  No, I've got it under all this paper.  I apologize.

The first words that Mr. Simpson wrote, first, everyone understand I
had nothing to do with Nicole's murder.  Then he goes on, and it says
-- I guess I was wrong yesterday.  I shouldn't have said it's not to
be referred to as a suicide note.  It is. And he thanks the people
that have been his great life-long friends.

And then on the 17th, after Nicole's funeral and after these
criminalists and doctors have taken blood from him, after they've
taken pictures of him, after they found that he has no bruises, no
nothing, O.J. knows absolutely true knows that he is going to be
arrested for the death of his former wife.

And that did not make any difference to Mr. Simpson; he was not
concerned at this time about an arrest or the police or whatever he
was going to do as far as the rest of his life.

He was grief-stricken.  He will tell you better than I could ever tell
you.

And you will hear from him.  You will hear from him that what he
wanted to do was to go down and be with Nicole, is what he wanted to
do, end his life and be with Nicole.

And he went down and got in the car and they went down to Laguna. 
When they got to the grave, the cemetery where Nicole was buried,
there was a police car in front of the entrance.  And they went down a
little ways further, into an area where there was an orange grove. 
And O.J. certainly more then contemplated ending his life, came very
close, and was talked out of it by his great friend, Al Cowlings.

We all need an Al Cowlings.

And then the most famous television saga, perhaps, of our time, came
back to Los Angeles.  And you'll hear some descriptions.  You'll hear
some cell phone conversations about that very, very traumatic time.

And you can make your own judgment if Mr. Simpson was going to flee. 
But let me tell you, you've heard about this consciousness of guilt.

What was in this black grip or this duffle bag?

Well, when O.J. returned from Chicago on June 13, that bag was opened
by Phil Vannatter.  He looked into that bag; and there was in that
bag, Mr. Simpson's passport, this disguise which was never used, and I
mean, can you -- you know, if Mr. Simpson were to use a disguise and
his passport, his passport photo then doesn't match what he looks like
with the disguise on.  He can't go anywhere.  But think about it.

He had like $8,000 on him.  And what perhaps is most important, by the
way, what was in there, passport, the stuff when Vannatter took Mr.
Simpson's grip from him and put it in his car, on June 13th.

In fact, you'll hear on the tape, when they interview him, they talk
about that grip, and Vannatter will I say, it's in my car.  They had
total custody and control of that.  It wasn't a disguise for Mr.
Simpson to run and hide.  And as I mean to tell you that, the things
that weren't in there are possibly more important than the things that
were in there.

Mr. Simpson is -- has severe arthritis. He takes 800 units of Motrin
in the morning and 800 units of Motrin in the evening.

There was no Motrin in there.  And this isn't Motrin we can get at
Payless; this is Motrin that's prescribed.

There were no toiletries in there.  He had given the money of $8,700
to Al Cowlings.  And he had given it to him because he thought he was
going to take his life.  And this was no consciousness of guilt.

Mr. Simpson then came back and he wanted to see his mother.  He drove
to Rockingham and he saw his mother.

The police handcuffed him and they took him down to jail for 490 days
in solitary confinement for two murders he did not commit.

Is this a good time, Your Honor?

THE COURT:  I take it you want a break?

MR. BAKER:  I would appreciate it.

THE COURT:  1:30.

Please don't talk about the case.  Don't form or express opinions.

(Luncheon Recess, 11:49 A.M.)


SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1996 1:40 P.M.

DEPARTMENT NO. WEQ

HON. HIROSHI FUJISAKI, JUDGE

(REGINA D. CHAVEZ, OFFICIAL REPORTER)

(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)

THE COURT:  I understand you're not going to finish.

MR. BAKER:  I'm going to finish today.

THE COURT:  Oh.

MR. BAKER:  I'm so tired of listening to me standing.

MR. KELLY:  I'll stipulate to that.

THE COURT:  That's very kind of you.  Okay.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Based on what we indicated, I released my witnesses.

(Jurors resume their respective seats.)


(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury:)

THE COURT:  Everyone present.  You may resume.

MR. BAKER:  Thank you, Your Honor.  Again, ladies and gentlemen, I
apologize for the length of my remarks but if you think its hard
listening, consider talking this long.

Now, when we left off, we had finished with my client in jail.  And I
want to go back now to June 12, 1994 and direct our attention, if we
can, to 875 south Bundy, Nicole Brown Simpson and the witnesses in
that vicinity in an area.

As you may be aware, after the recital, Nicole, her two children, her
children and OJ's children and a young lady by the name of Rachel
Berman as well as her mother, father and sisters went to Mezzaluna for
dinner.

They, I believe the evidence will show, left there at about 8:30 and
the plan was that Rachel Berman, this friend of Sydney Simpson was
going to spend the night and so they, after they the got through
dinner, they went over to Ben and Jerry's. They got on ice cream and
then they went back to the condominium at 875 south Bundy.

Now, they got there sometime possibly before 9 o'clock maybe it was a
little after.  In any event, there is a fellow by the name of, I want
to get it right here, Thomas Talerino and Thomas Talerino and his
friend are roller-blading down Bundy at 9 O'clock at night on June 12,
1994.  And you'll hear him testify that as he goes by 875 south Bundy.
 He sees a Caucasian or Hispanic male crouched in the bushes up by the
gate.  He sees a female over to the left of that by a bicycle.  He was
interviewed by the police and nothing happened.

Eleven months later, he's reinterviewed by Tom Lang, and asked
specifically, is this person who was in a suspicious position and he,
both he and his friend --

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, I have an objection to this based on,
from an order the court made.  May I be heard?

THE COURT:  You may.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.

(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)

MR. PETROCELLI:  The court entered an order and granting our motion in
limine regarding this evidence of other killers cause it cannot be.

THE COURT:  Excuse me?

MR. PETROCELLI:  Regarding evidence of other killers, third parties
because it cannot be linked up in any way to the situation in this
case.  And this is -- this falls squarely within that order, Your
Honor.  That's what we had moved on and that's what Your Honor
granted.

MR. BAKER:  Your Honor, this is totally different.  This is offered to
show that the LAPD zeroed in on my client, never ever looked at any
other, any other evidence.  And the people that are intricately
involved, the same people that are working for Mr. Silverberg and
Knupp now.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor specifically ruled on this.  This is the
very sort of thing you're not able to inquire about and that's what we
moved on because he cannot link it up in any way, shape or form to any
of the facts of this case.  He can't sit there litigating all these
clues in front of the jury.

THE COURT:  Not scrolling up.

The two motions came, the motion that the plaintiff made with regard
to any theories of other people such as a motion had to do with
theories of drug lords or other people who theoretically committed
this offense.  That motion, I don't think, covers what any percipient
witness saw with regards to a potential suspect.  So long as this is
not going to be the basis of concocting some theory of some drug lord,
I don't have a problem with that.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, that's a different motion.  Number 8 is
the one that's on point here that I'm referring to that we made.

THE COURT:  He has.

MR. PETROCELLI:  No, right here, Your Honor. He eliciting that the
LAPD did not follow up on these clues.  That's precisely what's barred
unless the defendant can make an offer of proof as to what clues or
leads would have produced under that case that we cited.  And what he
is doing is he's pointing out one clue and he can, that's 500 of them.
 That was the idea of the whole motion.

THE COURT:  The significant difference is that this is a witness on
the scene at the time at or about the time.  I'm going permit the
defendant to go further on that person to what that person saw. That's
different from pointing to some conspiracy theory or to some other
drug lord or somebody else.

MR. PETROCELLI:  He's gone beyond what the person saw.  His point of
this is what the LAPD did with regard to this information, not what --
I have no objection to the person's observations, Your Honor. That's
not what I'm quarreling about.  I'm quarreling about getting into
LAPD's investigation of that person's information.  That's not
relevant under -- that falls within the order.  If he wants to say
what Telerino saw and heard at the time of the scene, fine. I've got
no problem with that.  But what's the relevance of what the LAPD did
with regards to Talerino, that doesn't go anywhere.  That was why we
made this motion.

MR. BAKER:  Talerino testified that all leading to OJ Simpson, that's
been on the new media.  Marcia Clark had a press conference 56 hours
after these murders and says there is only one suspect.  And the
reason there is only one suspect is because OJ Simpson was their
suspect and they excluded everybody else.

I think it's relevant so have this jury understand because a big issue
is being made if not OJ, who?  And so I'm not saying who, but I've got
to say the reason that nobody can tell is because LAPD with this --
and a bunch of other things, did not follow normal police procedures
and did a very poor investigation, a very poor collection of the crime
scene evidence.  And obviously, what I would request is that you, if
you have any problems with this, you can move to strike it afterwards.
 I mean this is not, this is not the end all to the case but this is
very important.

THE COURT:  Well, I don't want this to be your wedge.  I don't want
this to be the wedge by which we get into the collateral theory of
drug lords.  What's her name?

MR. BAKER:  Faye Resnick.

THE COURT:  Faye Resnick, all of that other side show.

MR. BAKER:  Can we --

MR. PETROCELLI:  My point is that Thomas Talerino can come and testify
and state his observations as well as any other witness, but --

THE COURT:  To the extent that Mr. Baker is trying to say that the
police department focused on Simpson, to that extent, I will permit
it.

MR. BAKER:  Okay.

THE COURT:  It's very narrow.

MR. BAKER:  I understand.

THE COURT:  And I'm sure then that with those parameters, it is
permissible.

MR. PETROCELLI:  For him to argue that they didn't follow up on this
clue --

THE COURT:  No, you're to argue that they focused on Simpson and not
on anybody else.  They already made up their mind as to Simpson.  I
think that's the tenor of his argument.

MR. BAKER:  It is.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Well, we'll see.

(The following proceedings were resumed in open

court in the presence of the jury:)

MR. BAKER:  As I was saying, and I apologize, they're certainly
entitled to make their objections. I do as well.

But to Talerino on roller blades, his friend Louis Garentino on roller
blades going down, south on Bundy in front of 875 south Bundy and they
see this Hispanic or Caucasian female crouched in a menacing position
and they visualize this woman over next to a bicycle, Caucasian woman.

They're interviewed by the police and very shortly after the murders
occurred on June 12, 1994 and never again heard from until Thomas
Lange interviews them 11 months later while the criminal trial's in
progress, confirms that the exact location that they're talking about
with these individuals was the crime scene, 875 south Bundy.  They're
never contacted again by the police whatsoever.

At 11 o'clock, a woman by the name of Donna Marshall tells the police
that 11 o'clock on June 12, 1994 she hears a loud argument outside of
her house.  It was very loud and it was very menacing.

She is told by the LAPD, she told that doesn't fit our time line and
she's never contacted again.

Ladies and gentlemen, we'll get into what the police did in this case
in a minute, in terms of focusing on one person, O.J. Simpson.

Now, you've heard, and I don't disagree with the representations that
were made by Mr. Petrocelli relative to what was happening over at 875
south Bundy.  Except at 9:00 around 9:15, a Mr. Robert Berman came to
pick up Rachel Berman.

You recall I said Rachel Berman was Sydney's friend and apparently
plans had changed. Instead of spending the night at 875, she was going
home and she was picked up by her father.  Her father talked to Nicole
for about 15 minutes.

She wasn't afraid.  She wasn't upset. She wasn't depressed or
distressed.

He picked up his daughter, left.  As you've heard, Nicole called the
Mezzaluna restaurant at about 9:40.  After receiving the phone call
from her mother at about 9:30 suggesting that her mother had left her
glasses at Mezzaluna, they found them and she needed them picked up.

Now, Nicole, called and asked for Ron Goldman.  Nicole and Ron Goldman
knew each other well before June 12, 1994.  And in fact, you will hear
Nicole's best friend from the witness stand, say that they had a date
that night.  That Ron Goldman was in fact going to Nicole Brown
Simpson's condo that night.

And you will further hear that there were plenty of parking spaces in
front of Nicole Brown Simpson's condominium on Bundy at 10:15, 10:20,
whenever he got there, but he parked around the corner in his
girlfriend's car and down the street.

You will then hear this Robert Heidstra and -- bless you -- I sit up
here and talk for long periods of time.  I definitely try not to but I
make some mistakes.  I said on the 17th, I mentioned the name Heidstra
and it was actually Dr. Huizenga. Robert Heidstra is the witness who
heard the hey, hey, and hey and the clanging of the gate at 10:40,
10:40 at night.  That's when he heard hey, hey, hey, and that's when
he heard the clanging of the gate.

And he says, and he will testify here. He's very, clear on it, that he
saw a sports utility vehicle.  He saw a sports utility vehicle about
10:45, 10 minutes before Mr. Simpson is seen outside his home by Allan
Park.

He sees him standing about right here at 10:45 and he sees a sports
utility vehicle and a couple of other cars (Indicating to diagram
labeled map of Bundy area).  And they go.  It's kind of an easterly
direction and down south towards Wilshire. Mr. Simpson's home, if you
are in a hurry to get back and Mr. Simpson knew that he was being
picked up by a limousine driver on June 12, 1994, the quickest way to
get to Mr. Simpson's house is to go up toward San Vincente, take it
over to Cliffwood or Rockingham or Bristol and go up.  You're going,
in exactly the opposite direction if you go south on Bundy.

And that's -- Mr. Petrocelli didn't quite mention that the car comes
and turns this way and goes away from Mr. Simpson's estate.

And not towards it.  Now, the chronology and the time relative to the
finding of the dog, I agree with Mr. Petrocelli, I think the evidence
will indicate that Steve Schwab, about 11 o'clock, finds the Akita
with blood on its paws, meaning the murders have to take place
somewhere in the neighborhood of 10:45 to 11 o'clock in that range,
perhaps.  But if he finds the dog at 11 o'clock with blood on his
paws, we can assume that the murders have taken place.

Then, the dog is transferred to Sukru Boztepe and his wife at
approximately midnight, 12:10. They are walking the dog back.  They
look up Bundy, there's a street light.  There is a river of blood
going down the walk to the sidewalk adjoining her house on Bundy.

And ladies and gentlemen, at that time, the police are called and at
that time, the police get into the events of June 12, 1994.

Now, I want to go back for a moment, by the way, the car that Ron
Goldman parked was down here that night of June 12, when he could have
parked up here.  And that's a few houses.  That's not to scale.

I want to talk a little bit about something that obviously has some
sensitivity to it, but we've got to talk about it because it's the
evidence, and that is the actual murders themselves and the evidence
created by the murders.

At 875 south Bundy, you go up a walkway from the sidewalk.  It's 18
feet, nine and a half inches to the steps but very -- and could you
put that up Phil -- Very near the steps (Indicating to view.)

It's a gate.  And these are descriptions of where the bodies were
actually found.

These, and it's hard, it's difficult to see, are steps.  The back of
Nicole's buttocks is basically very close to the first step.  The
body, her body, the buttock on the body.

This gate, as you can see, the dotted lines arcs out and opens.  It is
a gate, ladies and gentlemen, that you can open from a buzzer inside. 
I believe the evidence will indicate that after the earthquake in
January of '94, sometimes it didn't work.  You'd have to come out and
open it.  In any event, you've heard Mr. Petrocelli indicate to you
that Mr. Goldman was attacked, basically, after Nicole Brown Simpson
was dead.

The evidence in this case, the physical evidence in this case --

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor, I'm going to object because he misstated
my statements.  I never made those statements about sequence of
deaths.  Move that it be -- I object to it.

THE COURT:  If that's not what you said, then sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.

MR. BAKER:  I think it is.  In any event, I'll move on.

What had to have happened, ladies and gentlemen, and we know from the
physical evidence what had to have happened, is that Ron Goldman was
inside the gate.  He was inside the gated area.  This is only a couple
feet.  Inside the gated area when the attackers, and I say attackers
--

MR. PETROCELLI:  This is argument, Your Honor, I object.

THE COURT:  Sustained.

MR. PETROCELLI:  No witnesses.

MR. BAKER:  He was -- I apologize.  He was inside the gate and blood
transferred from Nicole, there was blood 14 separate stains on
Nicole's clothes consistent with Ron's -- With Ron Goldman's blood.
And I believe three stains on his clothing consistent with Nicole
Brown Simpson's blood.  Which means they had to have interacted.

In fact, ladies and gentlemen, right about where this 8 appears,
that's where the envelope containing the glasses of Judy Brown was
found.

Now, the evidence will suggest, indicates it's between the two and
there is also, these are is a metal fence and it has rungs about four
and a quarter inches a part.  There is blood evidence all along these
rungs.  There's a hole right where the 14 appears.

There is blood all along this area. There is a beeper outside on the
other side of this fence area.  The cap and glove, interestingly
enough, there's a little bush right here.  They're like, they're
placed right next to each other, right by his feet.  There's also some
keys underneath here.

Ladies and gentlemen, there was a horrible struggle that took place
within this very closed in area.  And it took place, you will hear the
testimony, for ten to 15 minutes.  And there were 30 knife wounds in
Ron Goldman.  He tried valiantly to stay alive.  And he had knife
wound on his hands, his arms, he had knife wounds into his abdomen. 
He had two knife wounds into his chest and thorax.

He was -- did not, like any of us, want to die.  He struggled.  You
will hear that there, and see that there was blood down his front of
his pants from the wounds in his chest.  Meaning that he had been
upright after the knife fight ensued.  They were over here.  There is
a puddle of blood indicating that he was upright over there.  There
is, ladies and gentlemen, a cut fresh cut on the boot that Ron Goldman
was wearing, I believe on his left boot consistent with trying to kick
at the attacker.

And as far as Nicole Brown Simpson, as Mr. Petrocelli indicated to you
yesterday, she had her throat slit and her carotid arteries were
severed.

It's very close anatomically to the heart.  It produced blood that
gushes.  There was blood every where.  You will hear evidence that the
attacker had to be covered in blood.

Now, the attackers, this is double murder, this heinous act took
between 10 and 15 minutes and then there is bloody footprints at the
scene and there's these Bruno Magli shoes, and I'm going to talk about
those Bruno Magli shoes in some detail.  But first you want to switch
that off, please?

Let me talk to you at 12:20 is when Officer  Riske, I believe, arrived
and about 10 minutes later. Sergeant Martin Coon arrived to secure the
crime scene.

I want to talk to you a little bit about what the evidence will be in
the fundamental steps to investigate a crime scene.

The first thing you have to do is to recognize what is evidence.  Then
you have to proceed to collect and document that evidence.  The third
process is the preservation of the evidence, and the fourth is the
interpretation or analysis.

Those steps, especially the steps of recognition are vitally important
to any crime scene, in any crime for two very, very significant
reasons. One, is if you don't recognize the evidence and preserve the
evidence, you can jeopardize a prosecution 'cause it's never
collected.  Those mistakes at the beginning of the investigation of a
crime scene are irreversible.  They're irremedial, you can't go back
and undo it.  So that it has two specific things that you need to have
the able to recognize, collect and preserve, analyze and interpret
evidence.

One, to prosecute somebody who's guilty and two, to ensure that you do
not deny a suspect's elimination as the perpetrator of a crime.

And in this case, you will see that at 12:20 Sergeant Martin couldn't
come to put the yellow tape on the crime scene and he yellow taped the
crime scene.  He didn't yellow tape it 60 feet south where the Akita
dog prints went towards Dorothy, where Robert Heidstra saw the sports
utility vehicle.

That was never cordoned off.  People tracked over that, walked over
it.  There were looky-looks and police officers all over that area.

You will hear testimony that -- well, you've heard Mr. Petrocelli
indicate to you that there was nothing amiss in the house.  The
evidence you'll hear is we'll never know because the LAPD used the
inside of Nicole condominium as their command post. They did not
analyze it for evidence.

In fact, Officer Riske went into the condominium after he had first
gotten on the scene, picked up the telephone and called the west LA
police department, thereby eliminating the last number on the phone so
we couldn't determine who was the last person that was called.

There were candles, you've heard about these candles which are burning
upstairs in the tub, around the tub of Nicole Brown in her bathroom.

Those candles are blocks.  You can blow them out, find the actual
candle, relight it and see how long it takes to get there.  You know
how long she was alive at least, estimate.  That was never done. There
was melted ice cream on a rail that was ignored.

One of the fundamental elements in recognition in of evidence, to
establish the time of death you have to know last when the person was
alive. And that was done improperly by the police department and I do
not, for a moment want you to  believe that we're saying that they did
so intentionally.  We are not alleging that.  We are not asserting
that.

Then, ladies and gentlemen, let me jump to around 2:10 when Detective
Fuhrman and Ron Phillips arrived at the crime scene.  They analyzed
the crime scene.  They walk around and survey the crime scene.
Detective Fuhrman makes notes inside the house, sits down, writes some
notes out.

There was, according to Officer Riske's testimony at the preliminary
hearing in this manner, a concentrated effort to keep the police
officers out of the area of the closed-in area.  And away from the
bodies and the evidence that was there so as to not to contaminate the
crime scene.  And you will see from the photos, you can't see the
glove unless you get down and look.  It's under a leafy plant that
kind of arcs over.

And you will here, ladies and gentlemen, that after about 2:30 in the
morning, Fuhrman and Phillips are notified that the control of this
case is being transferred from the west LA division of LAPD downtown
to robbery homicide division, RHD.  You'll know about it.  You'll know
the initials well before we finish.

And so at that point in time, the authority for control over that
crime scene left Detective Fuhrman and it left Detective Phillips and
you will hear testimony, I anticipate, that at that time, point in
time, that is when Vannatter and Lange were taking over the crime
scene, that the other detectives quit detecting.

That they didn't make any further efforts.  Now, in our timeline, as
we go along, the next significant event and we will in meticulous
detail, fill in for you during the trial, what we believe Mr. Fuhrman
was doing between 2:30 and 4 o'clock in the morning.  But for now, let
me suggest to you at 3:25 in the morning, Rolf Rokahr arrives at the
crime scene and he is an LAPD photographer and he took hundreds of
photos.

And one of the photos he takes is most interesting because it's Mark
Fuhrman pointing down, pointing towards the glove.

Now, Mark Fuhrman, at that time, does not know allegedly of any glove
over at Rockingham.  There is no other piece of evidence with the
detective pointing at it on a picture taken anywhere.  And then,
ladies and gentlemen, you will hear that at 4 o'clock, Detectives
Vannatter comes to the crime scene, 4:05, I think is possibly when he
gets to the crime scene, 4:25 language gets there.  And Fuhrman kind
of takes them around the crime scene and he is then asked to lead
Vannatter and Lange to Mr. Simpson's house.

Now, the reason given, well, let me go back, I apologize.  By now,
we're at 5 o'clock in the morning there's 23 LAPD officers at the
scene.

The people in charge are Vannatter and Lange.  They're in charge. 
They're the detectives in charge from RHD of that crime scene.  They,
with the two detectives who were in charge of that crime scene, leave
23 detectives at 875 south Bundy with two dead human beings, a glove,
cap, blood every where and drive in two cars to 360 north Rockingham.

And the reason they say they do this is because Commander Bushy of
west L.A.P.D. had told Ron Phillips to give Mr. Simpson personal
notification of the death of his former wife.  They didn't know if Mr.
Simpson was there.  They didn't know.

MR. PETROCELLI:  This is argument, Your Honor.

THE COURT:  Sustained.

MR. BAKER:  The evidence will show they had no idea if Mr. Simpson was
home.  The evidence will show that these four detectives went over to
Mr. Simpson's house to further an investigate Mr. Simpson, who was
then a suspect.  The evidence will show that they abandoned the crime
scene at 875 south Bundy and went to Rockingham.  Ladies and
gentlemen, at approximately 5:05 the morning of the 13th, they have
arrived at Mr. Simpson's estate and they ring the intercom and no one
answers.  (Indicating to drawing labeled Rockingham avenue).

Because Mr. Simpson is in Chicago, his housekeeper Gigi had called him
earlier in the evening.  She usually comes back on Sunday nights. She
called earlier in the evening.  She was at Knotts Berry Farm.  It was
Phillipino new year and she wanted to know if she could stay out. 
And, of course, O.J. said sure.  No one's home.

Now, at this point in time, the evidence will indicate that Mr.
Fuhrman leaves the rest of the detectives and he goes and finds what
he believes is the Bronco askew.

Phil, you want to put the Bronco up again?  (Photo is displayed).  You
want to back it up a little so we can see the angle?

MR. BAKER:  Thank you.  He says that's askew and that was his first
indication that something may be wrong.  He then says that he finds a
blood spot.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor this is outside of the scope of the court
order yesterday.

MR. BAKER:  I'll withdraw it.  It is then reported to Vannatter and
Lange that Fuhrman, all by himself, discovers a blood spot above the
left door handle.

Will you put that up please?

Now, mind you, it is dark.  There is the door handle.  (Indicating to
photograph displayed).  There is the blood spot that he says is a
blood spot.  It's one quarter of an inch and I guess one 16 of an inch
wide.  The LAPD never even does a presumptive test.  To this day, we
don't know if that was blood or not.

Now, you've heard from Mr. Petrocelli that that was discovered by
Fuhrman and seen by the other, three detectives, three blood spots on
the door seal.

Ladies and gentlemen, the testimony will be that there were no other
blood spots available.  In fact, the car was locked as has been
testified to because you couldn't see any other blood spots unless you
unlocked the door of the vehicle.

MR. PETROCELLI:  All argument, Your Honor.  All argue -- oral
argument.

THE COURT:  Sustained.

MR. BAKER:  The evidence will be that not one of the three other
detectives will testify that they saw any blood spots on the door seal
because they couldn't see him with the door closed.  Let me -- it's
outside of the court's order. THE COURT:  What, which order?

MR. PETROCELLI:  The order regarding planting of evidence.  This is
specifically outside the court's order.

THE COURT:  I'll see counsel at bench with the reporter.


(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)


MR. PETROCELLI:  This is -- this is the Bronco collected on the 13th
and he's arguing that these spots outside are planted and that
specifically --

MR. BAKER:  I'm not.

THE COURT:  I don't hear him saying they were planted You're the one
that's saying they're planted.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Your Honor the only purpose of this whole discussion
was that the blood was planted. He said one officer saw the blood, the
other officer didn't see the blood.  What's the relevance of the
statement that three officers didn't see any blood?

THE COURT:  If three officers get up and testify they didn't see any
blood, that's what they're going to testify.

MR. PETROCELLI:  It was brought in.

THE COURT:  You make a motion to preclude reference to planting that
order.  Now, you bring those things up before the jury yourself.  What
are you doing? MR. PETROCELLI:  I didn't bring it up.  I said outside
the scope of the court's order, Your Honor.  I tried.  My   intention
is not to bring it up.  I think it has gone way out of bound.

THE COURT:  Excuse me, I don't think Mr. Baker has mentioned planting.

MR. PETROCELLI:  That's the only purpose of all this.

THE COURT:  How do you know what the purpose of it is other than the
fact that the officer is going to testify that he didn't see any other
spots.

MR. PETROCELLI:  But that's the purpose of that testimony, Your Honor.
 That's my point.  Okay.  I believe --

THE COURT:  We can't change the facts, Mr. Petrocelli, if the officer
testifies he didn't see the blood, he didn't see the blood.

MR. PETROCELLI:  For what other purpose can it be offered for?

THE COURT:  I don't know.  He's entitled to testify to what he saw.

MR. PETROCELLI:  We can seek to exclude the testimony on the grounds
it's not relevant to anything.

THE COURT:  Excuse me, I said he cannot argue that as a basis for
planting.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Understand.

THE COURT:  That's all.


(The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence of
the jury:)


MR. BAKER:  As I was suggesting, ladies and gentlemen, neither
Phillips, Vannatter nor Lange will testify to seeing any blood spots
on a door seal.

And so based upon that piece, if that's all they saw, if they weren't
in the car, based upon that Mr. Vannatter, after conferring with
Detective Fuhrman said, and I want to get this right, we believe that
the Simpson's house may be an extension of the crime scene where
someone could be hurt or killed.

Mark -- Strike that.  There is other testimony, there being people
hurt or killed in the house and the testimony will be that based upon
this Mark Fuhrman goes over the wall into Mr. Simpson's estate.  He
then opens the gate on Ashford and let's the other three officers in.

You will hear testimony from Philip Vannatter that at this time we're
about 5:45 in the morning.  He said, he said O.J. Simpson was no more
a suspect than you are, Mr. Shapiro.  And Bob Shapiro was Mr.
Simpson's criminal lawyer in the preliminary hearing.  And the
testimony, and what you will here is that Mr. Simpson was a suspect. 
He was the only suspect and they went in.

They went to his front door.  They rang his door bell and of course,
nobody's home. Mr. Simpson's on a plane to Chicago.  His housekeeper
has the night off.

So they -- Phil, have you got that other one?  The one the diagram of
the house showing the floor of it?  (Counsel displays photo).

THE COURT:  What' this stuff?

MR. P. BAKER:  Those are the two photos.

MR. BAKER:  Okay.  I'm sorry.  Thanks.  They come in the driveway, go
to the front door.  When they find that no one answers the front door,
they go around and there is a walkway that goes all the way around,
patio area, concrete area and down here is this, is the office.  This
is Mr. Kaelin's room back here.

They go down there and they knock on Kato Kaelin's door.  He comes to
the door and he disheveled.  It's early in the morning and Mr. Kaelin
isn't an early riser apparently and they introduce themselves as
police officers and he says, what's wrong.  Has O.J.'s plane gone
down?  They knew instantly that O.J. Simpson was on an airplane and
they questioned him more and they knew he was going to Chicago and
they knew he was on a scheduled flight.

The reason that's important is because Phil Vannatter subsequently
puts in a request for a search warrant that Mr. Simpson had left down
an on an unscheduled flight to Chicago an absolute untruth.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Argument, Your Honor.  Move to strike.

THE COURT:  Overruled.

MR. BAKER:  Then what occurs is Mark Fuhrman starts interrogating Kato
Kaelin and he asked to look at his clothes.  He asked to look at his
shoes and he gives him a stigmas test which is putting lights in the
eye to see if Kato Kaelin has been using drugs. The other three
detectives, after they learn that Arnelle Simpson is in the adjacent
room down the house.

They leave Fuhrman with Kato Kaelin and you'll hear testimony from Mr.
Kaelin's, he then interrogated more by Fuhrman.  Fuhrman goes into the
bathroom in the place, looks all around and he hears about the three
thumps that have become well known.

Now, about this time Arnelle and the other three detectives are coming
back towards the house and Arnelle does not know where her father is.
Knows he's gone out of town, but doesn't know the particular
whereabouts that he's taking in Chicago. And they go in the house to
find Cathy Randa, his assistant, who knows his whereabouts and keeps
his schedule and his itinerary when he travels and they go in there
and then another interesting thing happens.

Mark Fuhrman, who's been interrogating Kato Kaelin doesn't interrogate
him any more.  He has Phil Vannatter  interrogate Kato Kaelin and he
leaves and goes out to search the premise.

To find out where these thumps came from. Now, mind you, this person,
along with Mr. Vannatter, felt there was an emergency and people could
be killed, dying inside, bleeding to death.  It was an emergency.  He
goes out by himself.  There is nobody that can vouch for where he was.
 Wherever he goes, we know that he doesn't draw his gun.  He doesn't
ask for a back up.  He goes all by himself.

And 15 minutes later, he comes back and he reports finding a bloody
glove in a two foot wide concrete walkway basically where Kato Kaelin
said he heard the thumps.

Is this a good place, Your Honor.

THE COURT:  Okay.  Ten minutes recess, ladies and gentlemen.

(Recess.)


(Jurors resume their respective seats.)

MR. BAKER:  Thank you, sir.

At 6:30 in the morning, it is reported to Detective Vannatter that
Mark Fuhrman has found a glove on the south side of Mr. Simpson's
home.  Each detective individually walks out and looks at that glove. 
That glove is tacky; it is moist; and it is described as such.

The evidence will show, ladies and gentlemen, that if that glove had
been dropped there at 11 o'clock the night preceding, it would have
been dry by 2 o'clock in the morning.

The evidence will show, ladies and gentlemen, that there was
absolutely not a blood drop around that glove.  There was no blood
drop around it at all.

The evidence will be, that indicates it was placed there.

The evidence will be, relative to that glove, that there was no insect
activity or leaves or anything else on it.

That would have been on it, had that glove been placed there or
dropped there the evening preceding at 10:30.  The evidence at the
laboratory, subsequently I will deal with in a moment.

What next occurs is that Detective Vannatter sends Detective Fuhrman
back to Bundy to see if there's a match.  And you'll see the picture
with Detective Fuhrman that was taken out hours before at Bundy, with
his hand two or three inches from the glove.  He didn't -- there was
no real issue of match when Detective Fuhrman left Rockingham, went
back to Bundy, and then came back to Rockingham to report that the
gloves were, in fact, a match.

And then, ladies and gentlemen, we're now at about 7 o'clock in the
morning.  The evidence will be, seven hours after they have discovered
all of this evidence at 875 South Bundy, there has been no criminalist
there, that's the real detectives that gather the evidence.

There has been no real detective on the scene because they've all been
at Rockingham, and that evidence has been uncollected.  In fact, the
criminalists don't go to Bundy; they go to Rockingham at 7 o'clock in
the morning.  About 7:10 they arrive there.

There hasn't been a coroner.  The coroner's been called, canceled, and
the coroner is called again at 8:00.  And the coroner gets to Bundy at
9 o'clock.  That's nine hours after they were notified of the deaths.

And the criminalists gather some blood evidence at Bundy.  And you'll
hear all that blood evidence is consistent with the small cut that Mr.
Simpson endured the previous night that he told LAPD about on the
13th, before he knew what was at his house.

They gathered some blood.  They went back over to Bundy -- not back
over; I apologize.  They went to Bundy for the first time ten hours
after they'd been notified of those crimes.

You will hear from experts that know crime investigation, obviously a
lot better than I do, that one of the things you don't do is, you
don't send a criminalist from one crime scene to the other, because
you risk contamination.

You will hear that not only did the criminalist go back from one crime
scene to the next, but the detectives obviously -- Vannatter, Lange,
Phillips, Fuhrman -- there's Gonzalez -- he was at both places.  He
was back and forth.  And you risk, obviously, contaminating the crime
scene from one to the other.  And so at 10 o'clock, or shortly
thereafter, Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola, the two criminalists at
875 South Bundy, to collect evidence.

This is a scene that was described by the people who discovered the
body of Nicole Brown Simpson as being a river of blood.  There was an
immense amount.  You, unfortunately, will have to look at those
pictures, but it's part of the evidence.  And we don't want to put you
through it, but we have to.

In any event, what occurs then is, this collection of evidence takes
place.

Phil, can you pull up the 875.

Thank you.

This small area is where the murders occurred.  This is all dirt and
plants.  This is tile that is grouted, and you will see it in the
pictures. It's outdoor tile, kind of -- I think the tiles are eleven
and a half inches wide -- square.  And the two criminalists who are on
this crime scene for a total period of five hours before they release
this crime scene, they released this crime scene before they released
Mr. Simpson's house.

In the area where Mr. Goldman fought valiantly for his life, there are
all sorts of blood stains, blood drops, blood spatter, and blood-smear
evidence.  The LAPD criminalists collected none, not any of it.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Objection.  Outside the scope of Order No. 11,
specifically September 17.

MR. BAKER:  I think that was technique, not absence of.

THE COURT:  Overruled.

MR. BAKER:  Thank you.

Now, they collected some blood that were drops in the area.  They
found, ladies and gentlemen, not one drop, not one specimen of blood
consistent with O.J. Simpson.  Not one.

They found up in an area above the steps, a drop of blood of Mr.
Simpson that had 33 nanograms of DNA.  I'll try to explain a little
bit about DNA.

Let me suggest to that you DNA degrades over a period of time, that
the average amount of DNA in a fresh drop of blood is between one
thousand -- pardon me -- 1,500 and 2,000 nanograms.

The drops of blood that they collected that they say had Mr. Simpson's
DNA in it that went along this walkway which were not to the left of
the bloody shoe prints, only one contained from 33 nanograms of DNA. 
Keep in mind the reference is 1,500 to 2,000 to 1.8 nanograms of DNA.

If Mr. Simpson had never been at this house again, the evidence will
be the fact that his DNA, even though it was of a minute quantity,
would be of significance.

It is not of significance, the evidence will show, because that's a
place where he was.  He was there with his kids; he was there with the
dog; he picked up the dog; he took his kids places; he was in and out
of there all the time.

The evidence will be, ladies and gentlemen, that the LAPD tampered
with the evidence at the crime scene.  And there was, as I told you,
an envelope with the glasses of Judy Brown.  You will see pictures. 
They moved it.

Now, there isn't going to be any evidence of why no one will come
forward and tell you that they, in fact, moved it, and they had a
reason.  But one of the cardinal rules is, you'll hear from experts
and criminologists, you recognize the evidence; you document and
collect the evidence, and then you remove it.  That's the collection
process after you recognized, but you don't move it.

The evidence will show that the glove, the Bundy glove that was
underneath this little plant-like thing, that was tampered with. 
Totally turned around and moved.  And we see that in pictures.

The evidence will show that there were blood drops.  Nicole had a
dress on, a black dress on, that was kind of backless down a couple of
feet, and she was in -- her body was in a fetal position, kind of, but
with her back kind of in, to where you could look down and see her
back if you looked straight down.

There were blood drops, significant blood drops on the back of Nicole
Brown Simpson.  The significance of that, ladies and gentlemen, is
they could not have been hers.  They could have been the perpetrator
of these crimes.

LAPD never collected them.  They were washed off by the coroner.

The evidence will indicate to you that they failed to collect blood on
the back gate.

Now, I want to just be brief.  I want to try to finish, and I know
you've heard me a long time, and I again apologize.

The detectives, criminalists go to the scene.  They go all the way
through this walkway.  It goes all the way back to the alleyway.  This
is an alley.  Okay.

This walkway goes along the side of the house, goes all the way to the
back.  There's a locked back gate.  And the garages, as you might
guess, or might anticipate, are in the back.

For example, two of the blood drops -- they collected a total of five
blood drops down that walkway.  Five blood drops.

They -- from the back gate, there is a photograph, and item No. 117 --
you'll hear a lot about that before this is over -- item 117 was not
there.  Item 117 was not on the back gate July 3, 1994.  Three weeks
after the crimes occurred, that blood drop was collected.  And
interestingly enough, that blood drop had more DNA in it, five times
more DNA in it, than any other blood drop they had collected.

Now, if in fact they were all dropped at the same time, the night of
the murders, they would all have been within ranges of the same amount
of DNA.

Then, ladies and gentlemen, the evidence relative to the gathering of
all of the items that were in the area.  The envelope, as I say, was
moved. The envelope had glasses in it.  The envelope was never dusted
for prints, to this day.  They never took any fingerprints off of it,
the glasses inside.  And glass is a very good source to get latent
fingerprints.  It was never dusted for fingerprints, ever.

In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk to you a little bit
about the glasses, because as I mentioned a little earlier, Mr.
Simpson, through his attorneys, offered the services of some forensic
scientists, including Michael Baden and Barbara Wolf. It was refused. 
He offered to take a polygraph.  It was refused.

On the day of June 22, I believe, Mr. Baden, Dr. Baden, Dr. Wolf are
examining evidence. They open the envelope and they see the glasses,
and there are two lenses in the glasses.  You'd anticipate that.

By February, I believe 18 -- and I may be wrong on that -- of 1995,
Judge Ito orders those glasses to be inspected and the evidence to be
inspected by Dr. Henry Lee.

There's one lens.  Nobody knows where the other lens went.  All we
know is, we don't have any fingerprints, and there were no prints
taken from it. And we don't know where it was removed, we don't know
who removed it, and nobody will testify in this case why it's missing.

There was a triangular piece of paper that is photographed very close
to the envelope.  It has blood-pattern evidence on it.  And you can
see it from the photographs, blood-pattern evidence by the people that
know far more than I is significant, because you can tell movement and
you can type it.  Of course, you can determine whether or not it is
the perpetrator's blood.  You can do a lot of investigation and
testing.  That triangular piece of paper may have had significant
evidence on the other side.

Nobody ever saw it again.  It's just totally missing.

There was in this area a menu from a take-out restaurant to see if
they can call the restaurant missing, never processed by LAPD.

The evidence, ladies and gentlemen, will indicate that there were,
besides the tampering and moving of pieces of evidence, a failure to
collect evidence at the scene that could have exculpated my client.

Now, I want to talk a little bit about Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola.
 Now, my recollection is that Andrea Mazzola had never collected blood
before, and this was the third crime scene that she's ever processed. 
And the paperwork of the LAPD indicated that she was in charge.

In any event, these people, after they've spent three hours at Mr.
Simpson's place, and then there are five hours at the Bundy residence,
go back to Mr. Simpson's to take a -- to do more collection of
evidence.

Now, mind you that they had been there from 7:00 to 10:00.  At 4:30 in
the afternoon, Dennis Fung recovers the socks on a throw rug that is
directly adjacent to Mr. Simpson's -- it's right at the foot of his
bed, if you will.  The whole bedroom is carpeted, basically, a white
carpet.  There is a throw rug right at the foot of the bed:  The
socks, two socks, sitting there on this throw rug.

Now, those socks, ladies and gentlemen, when Willie Ford, who was a
videographer for the LAPD -- now mind you, they did not videotape the
875 South Bundy crime scene; they videotaped the interior of Mr.
Simpson's house.  And the given reason for that was because in case
they broke something, they wanted to have a videotape of it.

In any event, Mr. Ford testified that when he videotaped, will testify
when he videotaped Mr. Simpson's room at 4:30, those socks weren't
there at 4:30.

Dennis Fung says he found the socks. Mind you, Mr. Fung and Ms.
Mazzola were there for three hours that morning.

Now, the evidence will indicate that those socks were then booked into
evidence, with no blood detected on those socks.

On again that June 22 date, I believe it is when Mr. -- Dr. Baden and
Dr. Wolf examined some evidence.  They were retained by Mr. Simpson. 
They looked at the socks.  No blood.

When there was a meeting -- I believe it was June 29, 1994 -- I think
there were three criminalists there.  I believe, if memory serves, it
was Colin Yamauchi, it was Michele Kestler, who is the head of the
LAPD crime lab, and Greg Matheson.  They inspected the socks, among
other items of evidence, to see what tests were going to be run on
those socks.

And they indicate on the form, no blood detected.

None obvious.

And then, ladies and gentlemen, the date, I believe, if I'm not
mistaken, is August 4, 1994, and there are copious amounts of blood on
the socks, readily visible.

At that time, the defense of Mr. Simpson raised the issue of planting.
 And at that time, ladies and gentlemen, the LA District Attorney's
office indicated they were going to send these socks to the FBI to see
if EDTA was on them.  And the reason was, because if that was blood
from the missing CC and a half of Mr. Simpson's blood from the vial
taken by Spano Peratis, it should have EDTA in it.

And I want to go back for just a moment before I revisit the socks
issue, and tell you about the blood vial that was taken out of Mr.
Simpson's arm on June 13 at 2:30 in the afternoon.

That was a purple-top vial with EDTA in it, as Mr. Petrocelli
explained to you.  That's the anti-clotting chemical that's put in the
tubes because when our blood gets to oxygen, it clots, it coagulates. 
That's how we heal, mend ourselves.  And obviously, for testing
purposes, as he said, you have the EDTA to keep the blood viscous and
fluid.

So when Vannatter gets -- when the blood sample is taken from Mr.
Simpson, the 8 cc's of blood, Mr. Vannatter asked to take custody of
it.

And he's given custody of that vial, which is unsealed.  We will prove
to you that that vial was unsealed.

Mr. Vannatter has been an LAPD detective for years.  He knows the
regulations.  Evidence is to be booked as soon as possible.  He was in
the building, where he could book the evidence, Parker Center, Los
Angeles Police Department, downtown Los Angeles.  He did not.  He
could have gone a mile away to Piper Tech, which is what I think is
kind of an ugly brick building over the freeway.  The helicopters you
always see on it.  He could have booked it there. Detective Vannatter
didn't.  He left -- he says he put this unsealed vial of Mr. Simpson's
reference blood in his pocket, went upstairs to chat with Lange and
have a cup of coffee, and then drive out to Rockingham to give this
vial of blood of Mr. Simpson's -- to Dennis Fung.

The evidence will be that he didn't know if Dennis Fung was at
Rockingham.  He didn't know if he completed his investigation.  He
never radioed.

But he said he wanted to give this important piece of evidence to Mr.
Fung so that he could book it into evidence.

And you will hear testimony, ladies and gentlemen, that he takes this
vial of blood, he then gives this vial of blood to Dennis Fung, and he
does it in the presence of Andrea Mazzola.  And her testimony is, I
didn't see it; I closed my eyes.

The vial of blood is put in a trash bag, put in the evidence van, and
left there, ultimately taken downtown, left out on a table in an
unlocked room, the same room where all of the blood that had been
checked from Bundy and Rockingham was.

And the evidence will be that there was, after the next day, on the
14th, after Colin Yamauchi commenced his work on this blood, he spills
some.  And then he started to process it.  There was 1.5 cc's missing,
between 45,000 and 60,000 nanograms of DNA unaccounted for.

And the evidence, ladies and gentlemen, is that on the 13th, after Mr.
Fung and Ms. Mazzola had a very long day, they came back to LAPD Crime
Lab to put swatches into drying tubes.  And let me explain that just
briefly, if I may.

When you collect a dried sample of blood, you take -- it's like a
cotton swatch, and you dampen it and you put it over the -- you attach
it to the blood stain or drop or whatever.  And it soaks, does
whatever capillary action, whatever, and the blood goes into the
swatch.

The swatch is then placed in a plastic bag.  And if proper techniques
are done, it is then immediately taken to an area where the
temperature is low, not high, because DNA degrades in high
temperatures, and then it is processed.  That is, it is dried.  The
swatches are then dried and then they're processed.

The evidence will be that what happened to the blood swatches that
Andrea Mazzola and Mr. Fung went -- took back to the LAPD Crime Lab
was, once they got back there, they did exactly what they were
supposed to do:  They took the swatches and they put them in a drying
tube for overnight drying, so they'd be drying.

On the 14th, the morning of the 14th, they -- those swatches were
taken out of the drying tube, and they're put in bindles -- they call
them bindles.  It's just like a piece of paper folded up. And the
swatches soak that.

Andrea Mazzola testified that every time she puts a swatch -- and she
did it with Dennis Fung, so I don't want to mislead you -- every time
that she puts a swatch into a bindle, she puts her initials on it.

And then, of course, when the defense gets to investigate, to see the
evidence pursuant to a court order in the criminal case, there is not
one bindle that has an initial of Andrea Mazzola.

And more importantly, when the swatches are ultimately transferred to
the Department of Justice, there was a wet transfer.  That means that
after these swatches were dried, somebody substituted wet swatches
that hadn't dried, for the dry swatches that were in those bindles,
and sent it to be tested.

That is corruption of evidence.

The evidence will be, ladies and gentlemen, that the day of the 14th,
Colin Yamauchi is processing O.J. Simpson's reference blood.  Now, you
will hear from experts that you don't process reference blood first,
you process reference blood last.

And the reason you do that is because reference blood taken out of Mr.
Simpson's arm is so rich in DNA, that if it spills, it can contaminate
everything and ruin all of the evidence that you have there.

And so on the 14th, Colin Yamauchi takes the top off of the vial of
Mr. Simpson's blood and spills it.  And spills it on his hand, on a
Chem Wipe. And you will hear that that spill can contaminate every
piece of evidence in this case.  It is because they process the
evidence in the same place, in the same location.

And, ladies and gentlemen, I want to get through this.  And I know you
want that to occur, as well.

After Colin Yamauchi had processed this blood, it was then shipped to
laboratories with proper procedures.

And I'm not here to criticize LAPD, but I've got to tell you, they
don't have any procedural manual.  They've had one in a draft form for
years before they tried the Simpson criminal matter.  They just don't
have one.

Colin Yamauchi is a nice man.  He doesn't try to do poorly; he just
did, the evidence will be.

Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk a little bit about DNA.  I want
to tell you what DNA is and what it isn't, to my knowledge, and then I
want to talk about the Bruno Magli shoes and a time line, and I want
to sit down.

Quit smiling out there. (Indicating to the audience.)

In any event, DNA, as it's used in criminal detective work, is not the
same substance, but the test and what is done are not the same as, for
example, DNA for organ transplant.

It is a relatively new type of testing within the last ten years.  We
are at the infancy level of DNA testing, in using tests that are now
viable, to help solve crimes.

They will be far better ten years from now, but let me tell you what
we have now and had in 1994, as I understand it.

Mr. Blasier will tell you during the trial and explain it to you.  And
you've got to stay with him; it's very important.  But what you have
is, you have a double helix, as I understand it.  And if you unwind
this double helix, you have this in each cell that we have.  As a
human being, you have things that if you put them under a microscope,
look like ladders.  And there are in each cell, 3 billion of these
rungs to these ladders.

And what you do in the testing that we have now is, you look at most
of these 3 billion, somewhere in the neighborhood of 250,000, and you
take them down the ladder in different sections, one from the male and
one from the female who produced the human being that you're testing.

And if one molecule is different, it's a different human being.  So it
is not, the evidence will be, a test of uniqueness at all; it is a
test of exclusion.  And by that, I mean it can exclude somebody, but
it is not like a dermal fingerprint which you and I have that's
unique.

Which reminds me of one thing.  And I want to go back.  And I
apologize greatly, but it's important.

LAPD did find prints at the crime scene on Bundy.  They were unable to
identify nine identifiable fingerprints.  They weren't O.J. Simpson's.

Now, those are unique.  And what that uniqueness or individualization
means is, that if I put my finger here and they take a print, it means
I've been there, because nobody else has got my print. And that's what
law enforcement and crime-solving attempts to do, so no insignificant
pattern is too individualized.

Some things, like hair and fiber, are class definitions.  And Mr.
Petrocelli used the word "match."  He used it for hair and fiber; he
used it for blood; he used it in each of those instances.

And again, I think Mr. Blasier will talk to you about this with far
more intelligence than I have.

The word "match" is a form of art.  For example, you cannot tell if
your own head hairs will have similarities, but they don't; they're
not an identical match, and they're not individualizing like a dermal
fingerprint.

So I want to get back to DNA for a minute.  DNA is not a test of
uniqueness, but a test of exclusion.

And if you take -- and let's talk about PCR testing.  PCR testing's
greatest advantage is, you can take a speck that you cannot see, and
you can chemically make a jillion more of that speck. It's kind of
like a chemical Xerox machine, if you will.

The problem with it is, that's the advantage.  You can take a very
little speck and you can get a DNA readback on it.  The problem with
it is exactly the reason that it is an advantage.  If you have any
contamination in that speck, what you do is magnify it the same amount
that you magnify the sample that you're trying to test.

And so this case is not about -- the evidence will show it's not about
the fact that we think DNA is a bad test.  It's not about the fact
that we don't think DNA reliable.  DNA is as reliable as the
gathering, the collection, and the preservation of evidence before you
test it.

And every bit of evidence in this case went through LAPD Laboratory. 
And you will hear from and expert who was in the LAPD lab who tested
blood-sample items that, unfortunately, the LAPD lab is a cesspool of
contamination.

And let me explain that to you.  Let me tell you, the strongest
evidence that supports exactly what he said -- in PCR testing, I think
it's DQ Alpha -- that there are six alleles.  And an allele is a group
of these molecules taken off this ladder, okay?  It's a group.

And under this particular type of testing, this PCR DQ Alpha testing,
there are six alleles that are recognized and known in human beings.
They can appear at different parts and whatever.  I'll tell you more.

What is important about that is that those six alleles appear in every
piece of evidence, blood evidence tested by the DQ Alpha method.

When they shouldn't appear, they appear.  And in the reference blood
-- in the reference blood of O.J. Simpson that was taken on the th, he
has obviously certain alleles in his DNA.

On the 14th, an autopsy was performed on both of the victims.  And
reference blood was obtained from their bodies.

Interestingly, that reference blood was given to none other than
Detective Philip Vannatter. You will hear that for the first time in
the history of Gary Siglar's career in the coroner's office, a
detective asked for the reference blood, and he gave it to him.

The alleles that are consistent with Mr. Simpson's blood are in both
the reference blood of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman, and they
don't belong there.

In fact, you will hear testimony, and it will even be agreed to by the
expert for the plaintiffs, that the contamination in LAPD, Dr. Bradley
Popovich disagrees with our expert on how it gets there, but they both
agree that the alleles appear that shouldn't appear.

And when you get contamination in a laboratory, you will hear that
what you are supposed to do is to wash down all of the surface areas
with bleach, wash the tools with bleach, change the chemicals.

It never occurs at LAPD.  They don't even have a procedure for that.

Another way to eliminate contamination is to have what are known as
substrate controls.  And because of the time and my lack of knowledge,
I am not going to go into the substrate controls, except to tell you
that LAPD doesn't use them all the time, so they don't know if they're
contaminated or not.

And that is what the blood evidence is about.  You cannot trust -- the
evidence will show you, you cannot trust the blood evidence in this
case.

Now, the evidence I want to just briefly touch upon is some I evidence
in the Bronco.

The Bronco is impounded.  There is two drops of blood taken, something
less than that.  There is a smear, blood stain that some experts label
as smear on the steering wheel, that's not O.J. Simpson's blood; it's
not Ron Goldman's blood; it's not Nicole Brown Simpson's blood. 
Nobody knows whose it is.

Now, there are a couple of small stains, and we will explain those
stains to you in some detail, and why they're not indicative of any
indication of Mr. Simpson's involvement in the crime.

But I want to get to one issue, as we are getting late in the day, and
that is the issue of discovery of new, additional blood evidence in
the Bronco on August 26, 1994.  That is over two months from the time
of the murder.

And let me tell you what happened.  The Bronco is towed into the
prison yard.  They find, basically, Mr. Simpson's blood in the Bronco.
 That's not incriminating.  Mr. Simpson's in the Bronco all the time. 
He said he cut himself and bled the night before.

There is one small portion of blood; it's minute.  And you will hear
that it was interpreted to have some alleles of Ron Goldman's blood. 
But that study, that test, was invalid.

And hence, they have no evidence of any victim's blood in the Bronco.

August 26, 1994, Michele Kestler, the director of the LAPD Crime Lab,
calls and tells a Time Life photographer that she is going to conduct
an inspection of the Bronco, and she goes down to Viertell's, where
it's in the tow yard.  And she, with this made-for-media event, looks
for and finds blood that has never been found before, but that now has
the victim's blood on it.  And in the ensuing, that is, the previous
ten or twelve weeks, that Bronco has been without any security
whatsoever.

There are two individuals you'll hear testify that they got into the
Bronco by pushing the button and opening the door.  One of them stole
the receipt out of the Bronco.

They looked for blood in the Bronco and they found none of the blood
that was on the console that Michele Kestler found on August 26, 1994.

That, ladies and gentlemen, is most. I've gone through virtually all
of the physical evidence in this case.  And I want to suggest to you a
couple things.  And that is, that we will go through all of the
evidence in some detail.  But before I conclude my remarks, I've got
to talk about the Bruno Magli shoes.

Phil, put up that 1075, please.

(Indicating to photograph.)

MR. P. BAKER:  It's up.

MR. BAKER:  There are footprints.  They are of a Bruno Magli size 12
shoe.  Mr. Simpson didn't produce any Bruno Magli size 12 shoes when
Mr. Petrocelli asked him to produce the Bruno Magli shoes, because he
doesn't have any and never had any.

The evidence will be, ladies and gentlemen, that after the
investigation of these murders took place, the days after June 12,
1994, there were efforts made, of course, to find a murder weapon and
bloody clothes.  The crime scene was bloody.  There was obviously a
murder weapon someplace.  And there were efforts made for -- extensive
efforts made to find bloody clothes and a murder weapon.

In fact, you'll hear testimony that they enlisted the Boy Scouts. 
Every off-duty LAPD detective was enlisted to walk from Bundy to
Rockingham to search in the bushes, to see if they could find any
clothes or knife, whatsoever.  In fact, they went in the sewers,
ladies and gentlemen, to look for clothes and a knife.

They enlisted the Chicago Police Department in Chicago to look for
bloody clothes and a bloody knife or any knife.

And of course, they found nothing.  They found nothing at all.

They then enlisted, if my memory serves the Interpol, the
International Police, to look for -- find receipt, to find some
evidence, to find something about these Bruno Magli shoes.  They
enlisted -- it was everywhere throughout the United States, throughout
the world, a search to find any evidence that tied my client to Bruno
Magli shoes.  And none was found.

Now, with the criminal trial, you will hear that a photographer, Harry
Scull, out of Buffalo, New York, produced a photograph that was not
given to any police department; it's not given to any prosecutorial
agency; it's not even given to Mr. Petrocelli.  It's given to the
National Enquirer for money.

And you will hear that this photograph is a phony.  It isn't real.  It
was doctored.  And it was doctored sometime -- and there are other
marks on it that are irrefutable.  If you know what a contact sheet
is, if you take a 35-millimeter roll of film and take the film out on
a contact sheet, and they're all on the same sheet, this photo is out
of alignment with the others.  This photo has a double edge on one
side, indicating that they've duplicated the negative.

This photo has a different color.  Now, in part of the photograph,
it's a white shirt that Mr. Simpson has on.

This photograph has a different grain, texture, in parts of the
photograph.  This photograph indicates to everyone who's ever looked
at it, that the shoes that Mr. Simpson is wearing are indeed Bruno
Maglis, and they're dry and the weather report in Buffalo is that it
had rained for hours.  And these shoes are absolutely dry.  It's an as
Astro Turf field.  When you walk on Astro Turf after it's wet, you get
all kinds of residue on you.  There's no residue.

The photograph is a phony.

Now, I want to try to conclude.  It's been a long day for all of us,
my talking to you a little bit about it.  And I request your attention
for about 15 more minutes.  You've been very kind to me, and I really
appreciate it.

At 10:40, Robert Heidstra hears the "Hey, hey, hey."

At 10:55, Alan Park sees O.J. Simpson walking into his house, after
Mr. Simpson has deposited his suit bag and looked into his golf cover
bag for the shoes.

And by the way, he will not say he was hurting.  He will not say
anything of the sort.

And where he first sees him is in the way between the driveway and
right here.  And you can see that -- I agree with Mr. Petrocelli, that
you're right there, you can see right into that area.  You can see Mr.
Simpson walking back into the house.  And this was indicating to the
diagram of Rockingham Avenue.

The evidence you'll hear from our experts is that it took, as I
suggested to you earlier, ten to fifteen minutes for these homicides
to take place.

Let's take the shorter period of time. Let's take ten minutes.  That
would be 10:50.  It takes six minutes -- let's say he sped; he's in a
hurry.  Let's say four minutes.  That gets him -- if he is gunning his
Bronco, that gets him to the house at 10:54.

The evidence will show that if he was going to try to avoid the
limousine driver that was here, he wouldn't park here he'd parked down
here.

The Bronco is here.  He could not have had time, if he had the motive,
which he never did have, to kill two people, drive from 875 South
Bundy to Rockingham, get rid of bloody clothes, get rid of a murder
weapon that's never been found, and be walking back into his house at
10:55.  It's not possible.

Ladies and gentlemen, a human body has approximately, give or take,
about two gallons of blood to ten units of blood in them.  When you
cut the carotids of a human being, it is awash in blood.  When you
stab somebody and are in close to stab somebody 30 times and put up a
fight, you are not only awash in blood, you are hit.

Ron Goldman was a very strong, physical young man.  O.J. Simpson does
not have a bruise on his body.  Not one.  And, ladies and gentlemen,
Mr. Simpson is a man like all men who loves his kids.  Mr. Simpson
would not, could not ever kill Nicole and leave her body where his
children would find the horror of her in a pool of blood.

The evidence will be, ladies and gentlemen -- and I am sure that when
you hear all the evidence, we will prove what we've told you today:
That you will conclude that Mr. Simpson was wrongfully accused; that
Mr. Simpson did not, could not kill anyone.

His cuts, his hands, not seeing his demeanor while going to Chicago,
his entire -- what occurred in that period, he doesn't have to account
for this time.  He's an adult, a free American.

And, ladies and gentlemen, the evidence in this case is compelling. 
You can't trust the blood evidence.  And Mr. Simpson will take the
stand and he will be here as long as Mr. Petrocelli wants to examine
him.  And if you believe Mr. Simpson, if you believe O.J. Simpson, you
must find him not responsible.  Even that, you look at the time line.
Mr. Simpson had no time to commit these crimes whatsoever.

And when this case is all done, and it's all finished, I'm confident
you'll conclude my client is no murderer.

Thank you very much.

THE COURT:  Ladies and gentlemen, we'll adjourn until tomorrow, 9
o'clock tomorrow.  We'll start at 9:30.  Don't talk about the case or
form or express any opinions.

JUROR 205:  We have a letter for you.

THE COURT:  Counsel?

(The following proceedings were held at the Bench, in the presence of
the reporter.)

THE COURT:  Juror 205, that's the young girl, the alternate, first
alternate down here.  She's a student at one of the colleges, and she
is going to have to extend her leave.  She's requested a letter from
the Court, so I drafted a letter to send, okay?

MR. BAKER:  Sure.

THE COURT:  And the only other thing is, now some of the jurors want
to know if they should go back to work or not during the days that we
are going to be dark, I mean.  They've got to live their lives.

MR. BAKER:  Got to make money.  All I would suggest is that you tell
them, Judge, your employer has no obligation to pay when you're not
here.

THE COURT:  I don't think that's the problem. The problem is, they
really don't want to go back. Well, they feel they need to go back to
work, because they're concerned about the questions they're going to
be asked.

MR. PETROCELLI:  I think it's a valid concern.

THE COURT:  I'm going to check with our jury people, see what
arrangement I can make that they don't have to go back to work. I'd
just as soon tell them they don't have to go back to work, just
because they would be subjected to obvious pressures.  Okay.

MR. BAKER:  Thank you.

MR. PETROCELLI:  Thank you.

THE COURT:  9 o'clock.

(Proceedings were adjourned until 9:00 A.M., Friday, October 25, 1996.)

</PRE>
<HR WIDTH=525 ALIGN=LEFT>
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/headers/rights2.gif" ALT="Copyright 1996 by American Lawyer Media, L.P. All Rights Reserved.">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="No parts of this site may be reproduced without permission of American Lawyer Media." BORDER="0">
<IMG SRC="/graphics/ctv/frontpage/spacer.gif" ALT="Nothing in this site is intended to constitute legal advice." BORDER="0">
</BODY>
</HTML>
</DOC>
